The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Gauteng says internal charges against former member of the Tshwane Mayoral Committee and PR Councillor Sheila Senkubuge will be dropped, following her resignation. The party confirmed that it accepted Senkubuge’s resignation with immediate effect, following the surfacing of an audio recording, which suggested that Senkubuge and the Executive Mayor of the City of Tshwane Stevens Mokgalapa – who is on special leave, had discussed their colleagues and were allegedly intimate inside a municipal office. The DA’s Gauteng Provincial Leader John Moodey says, “We accept her resignation as a councillor; therefore, she won’t be serving as a member of the Mayoral committee. The DA therefore has to fill the position. We are waiting for the IEC (Independent Electoral Commission) to declare the vacancy and, through our nominations processes, we will fill that vacancy…” “We will continue with our investigation into the mayor’s conduct and she has indicated to me verbally that she’s prepared to cooperate with our internal investigations as well,” added Moodey.  Mokgalapa has taken special leave to allow an investigation into various allegations against him – and Councillor Abel Tau has been appointed as the Acting Executive Mayor of the City of Tshwane. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says meanwhile that it has considered taking legal action against the Speaker of Tshwane, Katlego Mathebe, who attempted to dismiss a Motion of no-confidence against Mokgalapa, after he was criticised following the audio recording. EFF Secretary-general Floyd Shivambu said they were informed that the Speaker would dismiss the motions, but are prepared to take legal action to prevent that. “We are basically reminding her that the rules and regulations of Council of Tshwane do not permit her now to disallow a Motion of no-confidence, because there is certain conditions that you must comply with before you dismiss a motion. She has verbally indicated that she intends to dismiss the motion and we are saying there is no legal basis.” “We are saying there are things that must be met before you dismiss a motion and none of those, the Speaker is complying with,” added Shivambu. SABC News reporter Sipho Stuurman spoke to Acting Tshwane mayor Abel Tau on the latest developments:   