The AmaXhosa Royal Kingdom has announced that its fallen monarch, King Mpendulo Zwelonke Sigcawu, will be laid to rest on the 29th of November. The announcement comes after a meeting that was held by members of the royal family at Nqadu Great Place Saturday morning. King Sigcawu passed away at Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital on Thursday morning. Speaking on behalf of the AmaXhosa Royal Family, Prince  Zolile Bens-Ncamashe, says the nation expects the Office of the Presidency to declare a Category One funeral status that will be fitting for the King’s farewell. “Obviously when it comes to the categorization, it not being the first instance of burial of the king in the Xhosa kingdom, taking into account the precedence that already exists in terms of the funeral  accorded to the late His Majesty King Xolile Sigcawu, we hope that will also provide useful guidance in making the determination.” The family also discussed who will take over the reigns and act as a regent in the meantime. Bens-Ncamashe says the succession issue will be debated on Monday as to who will take over the throne of AmaXhosa Kingdom. “Her Majesty, Queen Noloyiso Sandile, from the right hand house will be arriving here and again as it is customary, major pronouncements will be rolling out after her arrival and engagement with the family, the nation will know who succeeds His Majesty King Zwelonke Sigcawu.” Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Deputy Minister, Obed Bapela has conveyed condolences to the AmaXhosa Royal family and the whole nation on the passing of the king. Bapela says any category of funeral that will be declared for the burial of King Zwelonke will set the tone for future burials of the kings in the country. He says the family, premier and presidency office will decide the category befitting the king. “When it comes to the funeral I think this funeral will give us that lesson to say, here is an opportunity of equalizing the King’s befitting farewell. The categories does give us a bit of options, it’s not like we are starting from afresh, so whatever is going to be a category we will then design it as a category for all kings; so that all future funerals will go to the one we will be declaring here so that it is one for the entire country, is not separated from the other.” Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leadership chairperson, Chief Mwelo Nonkonyane has expressed shock that there are doubts about the status of  funerals befitting kings. He insists that the AmaXhosa King Mpendulo Sigcawu is not the first king to die under a democratic government. “I am shocked if there is that word from anybody from the government. As far as Contralesa is concerned, as far as the Houses is concerned that matter was discussed long time ago that the kings must be corronated by the president  hence the president of the country was here when we corronated this king. King Sigcau in Pondoland  passed on, King Ndamase passed on, government was involved, there is no need or any wishy washy and we are of the firm view as the traditional leaders that government must give His Majesty the King a dignified funeral he deserves.” Watch the video below for more on the story:  