Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola has told the National Assembly that any form of donor money to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will be managed by National Treasury and be declared through proper processes. Lamola says the NPA works with other law enforcement agencies worldwide in the battle against corruption. However the NPA remains cash strapped. Lamola says legislation allows for the NPA to receive money through donations. “The CARA Act does provide for the NPA to receive any kind of donor funding which must be done through the National Treasury and National Revenue Fund and that must be safeguarded that it is channeled through the National Treasury. The NPA doesn’t play any role there, their role is to prosecute.” Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele has told the National Assembly that statistics indicate that most murders occur over the weekend and are related to alcohol abuse. He was answering questions from members of Parliament in the National Assembly. As the summer holidays are approaching, Cele has also urged people selling liquor to stick to their licensing conditions. He added that when police are being deployed this issue must be taken into consideration. “The people that are murdered in SA,  70 % of them are murdered over the weekend and they are starting on Thursday evening until Sunday morning, deployment needs to speak to these liquor boards to obey laws.” Also in Parliament, Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi confirmed to the house that foreign nationals who staged a sit-in at the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) offices in Cape Town recently are refusing to go to their countries of origin but want to be taken to another country. He says the challenges of porous borders will be addressed once the Border Management Authority Bill has been passed. Motsoaledi says the foreign nationals also refused to be reintegrated with communities in South Africa. “They said there is no way they will stay in SA then the commissioner offered to take them to their countries of origin. They don’t want to go there, they want to go to another country and that is Canada nothing more or less.” 