While thousands are gathered in prayer for peace inside the FNB Stadium where the National Day of Prayer is taking place, ironically about 500 metres outside the venue it has been a night of unrest for some vendors trying to cash in on business. Nora, all the way from the church headquarters in Moria, says the police and other patrollers around the stadium harassed them through the Saturday night until the Sunday morning. “They were putting of our fires telling us that we are not allowed to sell and that we are going to disturb the proceedings. For three years, we have been doing this and it has never been a problem,” she says. She says they needed the fire to prepare fat cakes and other meals for the thousands of people that had already started to descend on the venue. Unemployed, without tertiary education, with very slim prospects of getting a job in a country with ever-rising levels of unemployment, for her events like this provide her with an opportunity to put some food on the table and make ends meet, but it has not been easy. Her plight is the reality of other vendors who have flocked to the venue. Thapelo Mmotong, selling music on the outskirts of the stadiums, says the lack of vendor permits has been their biggest issues.  He says getting those permits is equally an insurmountable challenge. “This whole week, I have been up and down trying to get a permit. I went to the Motsepe Foundation where I was referred to the Joburg Municipality. There I was referred to the another municipal building also in Braamfontein. They then referred me back to the Joburg Municipality. There I was referred to the Economic Development building. And there I was told I can’t get the permit without being on the database and to be on the database I must come back on Monday. But the event is today (Sunday),” he laments. However, as the programme continues smoothly inside the venue, with various religious church leaders taking to the podium to give sermons, it seems it’s not so bumpy anymore for some vendors who have expressed satisfaction with how business has been doing since the morning – perhaps because the police and those other patrollers now have their hands full as they try to control the crowds into the stadium.