The African National Congress (ANC) in Tshwane says it’s ready to vote in support of a motion of no confidence against Democratic Alliance (DA) Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa. The party has accused the DA-led Tshwane administration of failing to deliver basic services since taking over in 2016. This comes a day after Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema indicated in a media briefing his party’s intention to work with ANC to oust Mokgalapa as Tshwane mayor. The fight for the Mayorship of the City of Tshwane is picking up steam.  The EFF fired the first shots, demanding that Mayor Mokgalapa be ousted. Julius Malema  says:”Tshwane is with ugly suites, he has never met EFF that guy not once, nothing, he operates like he has got majority in that municipality. We are just waiting for the ANC to put a motion of no confidence on that guy, we are going to vote with them to remove him.” Sharing the sentiment the ANC in Tshwane says it’s ready to work with any party to remove the DA Mayor. The Tshwane council consists of 214 seats and the DA currently has 92 while the ANC has 89 which makes the EFF the king maker with its 25 seats. ANC Tshwane Regional Chairperson Dr Kgosi Maepa says:”If the EFF wants to remove the mayor of the city of Tshwane they can put a motion.” “Our position is very clear when the motion comes than there must be removal.” However, the DA is unfazed. Gauteng North Regional Chairperson Abel Tau says: “We have been voted for by the people of Tshwane as the DA and for that reason we will continue to engage them based on our manifesto, based on our own policies.” The DA in Tshwane is allegedly divided. Former DA Branch Chairperson Tshepo Moremi says: “The DA is trying to make a multi-racial party and then for me to have only one race in top management structure, to me then you are not actually speaking to the people. It looks like you want to protect the interests of the few and who are those few?” The DA however disputes that there are racial tensions within the party. DA Gauteng North Regional Chairperson Abel Tau says: “For starters I am the regional chairperson and honestly speaking I would hate to think that I am the regional chairperson because I am black. We are not that kind of a party. It’s easy to pander on racial stereotypes and box people based on colour. That’s not the organisation that I lead.” Council is expected to seat next Thursday. Related video click below: 