President Cyril Ramaphosa has lauded the victory of the Springboks this weekend saying it confirms that South Africa is a nation, determined to find unity in its diversity. In his Monday letter to the nation, President Ramaphosa said the manner in which the country rallied behind the national rugby team shows the potential of sports to foster social cohesion. His view is however not shared by all with a future on social media erupting after comments by a number of people including the Economic Freedom Fighters’ Mbuyiseni Ndlozi referring to the race dynamics surrounding the team. While it has evoked nostalgia for many,  it has also opened up debate on whether South Africa is on yet another rainbow nation project attempt. Fresh from Japan, the President penned a letter reflecting on the events that unfolded on Saturday. Presidency Spokesperson Khusela Diko says: “He has said that this win shows once again how as South Africans working together nothing is impossible, he has also said that South Africans have been able to use sport to unite them to bring them together and to ensure it focuses us on the things that we agree on as a nation.” “It does not mean we don’t confront challenges but it proves that working together nothing is insurmountable.” This is not the first time the Springboks won the Rugby World Cup and each time, it happened under a different political climate. With the Webb Ellis Trophy now on its way home, South Africans are divided on whether this latest victory can unite a racially polarised society like ours. At the forefront of the debate on social media was EFF Spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi who tweeted a congratulatory message to Captain Siya Kolisi. But the last part of his tweet is what got tongues wagging. In another tweet, Ndlozi refers to the economic conditions arguing there cannot be unity without equality. However, political analyst Prince Mashele believes that deeper analysis of the country’s history is required. Mashele says: “South Africa is a complex community there will be sporting codes that are dominated by some races. We know that black people dominate in the main predominately soccer and the fact that we know that there is a special history attached to rugby and the Afrikaaner community in South Africa, so we should not ignore that and be simplistic in our analysis.” Meanwhile, on the street of Johannesburg, some South Africans refused to have their spirits dampened. Related video click below: 