A state prosecutor in a case related to the VBS Mutual Bank saga told the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court in Limpopo that it is difficult for investigators to finalise investigations because the intimidation was pre-planned. Thabo Sibanze, who allegedly sent threatening messages to South African Municipal Workers’ Union  (Samwu) leaders – who had criticised the Vhembe District Municipality for investing more than R300 million in the liquidated bank – has appeared before court. The case against Sibanze has been postponed to next week Monday for a decision by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). The case relating to the VBS saga against Sibanze was delayed, as the state wanted to get an instruction certificate from the DPP. The instruction certificate from the DPP gives the state authority to request the postponement of the case, instead of withdrawing it. State prosecutor, Mashudu Nekhumbe says investigations relating to the cellphone that was used to send threatening messages are outstanding. She says the state is in possession of the sim card, which was allegedly used by Sibanze, but the cellphone has not yet been recovered. However, Magistrate Thifuriwi Ligege was not happy to postpone the case again. He  has told the court that if the DPP fails to take a decision next week Monday, he will make a ruling in the case. He has postponed the case to the 2nd of December. Chairperson of the Moral Regeneration Movement in Limpopo, Tshenuwani Farisani has been following the case from the first day six months ago. He says, “The cases have taken long, very long. We compare the period taken on this case with other cases elsewhere in Limpopo. We hope the case should be concluded, but concluded justly.” Matamba Mamuremi of Vhembe Traditional Health Practitioners’ Forum has also expressed disappointment about the postponement. “We are very much disappointed. They are coming up with some delay tactics. However, we are still committed to fight until justice takes its course.” Sibanze was remanded in custody. The National Prosecuting Authority says the investigation into the case is taking so long because Sibanze could be linked to the killing of two Samwu leaders, Timson Musetsho and Ronald Mani. The two were gunned down in two separate incidents in Thohoyandou earlier in 2019. Meanwhile, in the other case relating to the VBS saga in the province, two suspects arrested in connection with the killing of an African National Congress Councillor will appear next week Friday before Prakisser Magistrate’s Court in Burgersfort. Dan Tjie and Kagiso Moroga allegedly shot and killed Thabang Maupa of the Greater Fetakgomo-Tubatse Local Municipality last December.  Click below for more on the VBS saga: