In a colourful FNB Stadium that was filled to the rafters, Zion Christian Church (ZCC) leader, Bishop Dr Barnabas Lekganyane has lamented the poor leadership that he says South Africa and the rest of the world are in so much need of. During a speech themed on selfless leadership, Lekganyane spent most of his opening speech narrating the story of Moses and the Egyptian King, Pharaoh which he said was the epitome of selfless leadership, which he lamented was rare today. “The sacrifices made by Moses in pursuit of justice are the kind of selfless leadership that is so needed in the world right now. Not the kind of heartless leadership that was espoused by Pharaoh which is rife today.” He says, “Leaders like Moses and Jesus are in shortage in South African and globally.” Ramarumo, as Lekganyane affectionately known, has said Jesus voluntarily became a servant to his followers. “The question is, ‘Do our current leaders have these kind of qualities or are willing to put them into practice?’” Lekganyane started off his sermon by sympathising with the families affected by the tornado in the KwaZulu-Natal province last week, saying it was one of the sign that issues of climate change needed to be taken seriously. He also sent his condolences to the Xhosa nation following the passing of King Sigcawu last week. “In this regard, the theme of my speech is honouring Moses’s principles of leadership. Our country is still characterised by inequality, poverty, unemployment, women abuse, racism and many others.” Lekganyane has also reminded the religious leaders that they were not divorced from the issues afflicting the masses they preside over like poverty and inequality among others. He has reminded them that in 2018, they had agreed that, “Pray for unity of all South Africans” from all walks of life; “end to poverty and crime, and particularly crime against women and children; the creation of job, equality and provision of skills; (to) pray for the current land reform discussions to result in land being made available to the people. Peaceful elections in 2019.” “Sadly, little has changed since then because of poor leadership,” he says. The spiritual leader of the biggest church in Southern Africa has also decried the slow pace of land redistribution which he said seemed “to have been abandoned or completely stalled.” The poor state of the economy and the retrenchment that have afflicted thousands of families in the past year in South Africa also made it into his sermon that urged the leadership of the country in all sectors to commit to improving the lives of the people. More than 90 000 congregants from the 33 religious groups filled the FNB Stadium and sat still as he spoke. Various artists like gospel star, Dr Winnie Mashaba, Dr Rebecca Malope and the much-acclaimed Abathandwa had earlier entertained the crowds in the stadium between different sermons by different pastors from other churches. But it was the ZCC Bras Band that concluded the proceedings after the sermon by Lekganyane.    Click video below: 