Botswana’s newly inaugurated President Dr Mokgweetsi Masisi says his government’s fifth administration will focus on job creation and fighting corruption. “Young people are the hardest hit by joblessness. In order to address the twin problems of unemployment and poverty among our people in general, I have committed to prioritise job creation during my tenure. We have our key priorities to ensure the creation of meaningful and sustainable jobs, promoting public-private partnerships with local and foreign investors, in some key sectors of agriculture, mining, tourism, manufacturing, electronics, pharmaceuticals, as well research and development among others,” Masisi explains. The inauguration ceremony took place in the capital Gaborone earlier on Friday. There are reports of corruption in government, although the Corruption Perception Index has found Botswana to be one of the least corrupt countries in Africa. Masisi says corruption will not be tolerated. “I have fought against manners of corruption since ascending to the presidency. And it is my intention to do so without relenting. I therefore wish to emphasise that my government will put in place measure and mechanisms through the application of best practises of good governance, to ensure that corruption is defeated.” Opposition parties in Botswana have also attended the inauguration. This despite the main opposition, the Umbrella for Democratic Change as well as Botswana Patriotic Front complained last week that the elections were rigged. They argued that there were duplications in the voters’ roll, also alleging that people were denied voting in the areas known to be the opposition’s stronghold. Botswana Democratic Party that has governed Botswana since 1966, won last week’s general elections with 38 parliamentary seats, while the opposition won a total of 19 seats in the 57 seat parliament. ANC secretary-general, Ace Magashule, says his party has a good relationship with the Botswana Democratic Party (BDP). Magashule was speaking on the sidelines of the inauguration of Botswana’s President Mokgweetsi Masisi in the capital Gaborone. Magashule, who was accompanied by former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo and provincial secretary Dakota Legoete, wished the newly-inaugurated President well. “We have a good relationship as the African National Congress with BDP. And we wish the President well.”  