Guinea-Bissau holds a presidential election on Sunday that voters hope will bring change to the coup-prone nation after weeks of political chaos that sparked violent protests and deadlocked parliament. President Jose Mario Vaz, 61, is seeking re-election for a second term, and he remains popular among cashew nut farmers in the interior after raising prices for the nuts — the tiny West African country’s biggest export earner. But he faces stiff opposition following a first five-year term marred by political infighting, regular high-level sackings and corruption that came to a head in the run-up to Sunday’s election. While no reliable opinion polls have been published, political analysts say the front-runner is former Prime Minister Domingos Simoes Pereira, 56, a modernizer with a relaxed style whose promise to bolster health and education have made him popular with younger voters in the capital, Bissau. Preliminary results are expected on November 28. If there is no outright winner, a second round between the top two candidates will take place on December 29. “Guinea -Bissau has faced five years of political and institutional crises,” Pereira told Reuters, adding that the country needs “a president who is able to create an atmosphere conducive to the restoration of peace and stability.”  The country’s deserted beaches and scattered islands are a draw for adventurous tourists, but its unpoliced waters also provide passage for drug traffickers smuggling cocaine en route from South America to Europe. The next president will inherit major challenges including widespread poverty and an unstable political system in which the majority party appoints the government but the president has the power to dismiss it. There have been seven prime ministers since Vaz took over in 2014. Vaz fired premier Aristides Gomes on October 29 and appointed a successor, but Gomes refused to step down. For about 10 days the country had two prime ministers, until Vaz backed down under pressure from the regional bloc ECOWAS. Still, Vaz has promised to accept the results of the vote, using his closing campaign speech on Friday to highlight the fact that he had finished his term in office. “I managed to do what no one did … in Guinea-Bissau since the country became a democracy,” Vaz told supporters. “During my mandate there was no coup and I’m very satisfied about this.” Hopeful that Sunday’s vote will draw a line under the political crisis, voters were upbeat before voting and the final parades in support of the candidates were accompanied by music and dancing. Some sounded a note of caution, however, about the challenges faced by whoever is elected. “We want a president who can resolve the political crisis,” said Pereira supporter Myriam Suarez Wague. “The population is suffering.” 