It’s all systems go for the funeral of the late AmaXhosa King, Mpendulo Zwelonke Sigcawu, at Nqadu Great Place in Willowvale in the Eastern Cape on Friday.  President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy before the king’s body is lowered at the grave site around midday. Family spokesperson, Nkosi Xhanti Sigcawu has appealed to the public to respect the king’s send off, emphasizing that people should not come to the funeral under the influence of alcohol. “By seven o’clock we want everybody to be seated because at 12h00 we will be at the grave site and by that time the coffin should be on the ground. We are appealing to everyone who’s attending the funeral to be early. We are also appealing to the South Africans at large, especially those who will attend to stay away from substances that will really change their mind-sets.” “We wish that people could come here sober for them to hear speakers that will be speaking. We have people that we respect in this country that will be speaking to send farewell to his majesty and we want the majesty to have a proper farewell that deserves a King.” Dignitaries that include Kings from other countries, ministers and traditional leaders are expected to converge in one of the marquees at Nqadu Great Place.  The programme begins at four in the morning with the transportation of the body to the Great Place — followed by family rituals. The funeral programme is expected to start at seven o’clock in the main tent. As final preparations were being put in place late on Thursday afternoon,  members of the military packed the Great Place and palace to prepare for the funeral.  Seven marquees have been erected to accommodate the thousands of people expected to bid farewell to the king.  The military spent hours rehearsing, and military vehicles and motorbikes were an attraction to the locals, who lined the street to witness the rehearsals. Military Marshall, Colonel Lulamile Nontshinga says they’re well prepared for the burial.  “We as the Defence Force we are responsible for the military theme. The bikes are for the military police that are actually responsible to escort the coffin, also the very important people that will be around. They are also responsible for the controlling of people that will also be coming in from today and tomorrow. We are ready. I can confirm that we are ready for tomorrow.” Graders were seen on the 12 kilometres gravel road leading to the Great Place, fixing the road while village men were busy slaughtering sheep and cows. Click video below: 