After more than a decade in a Thailand Prison for drug trafficking, South African Nontando Pendu has returned home. But the question is: was she a perpetrator of drug smuggling or a victim of human trafficking? SABC Special Assignment Producer Hazel Friedman reports on an exclusive story. Since 2009, Special Assignment has been investigating the transnational narcotics trade. The programme has also broadcast the stories of South Africans incarcerated abroad for drug trafficking and the agony of their loved ones who are emotionally incarcerated alongside them. Special Assignment believes that in some cases they should be classified, not as perpetrators of drug smuggling, but rather victims of human trafficking. In 2008, 24-year-old Nontando Pendu flew to Bangkok for what she thought would be a lucrative job. But the dream job turned into a nightmare. She was allegedly forced to smuggle drugs, was caught and sentenced to 25 years in prison. “Victims of human trafficking are not confined to sex slavery. They are now being forced to traffic drugs without their knowledge in the recruitment process,” says Human Rights Lawyer Sabelo Sibanda. The syndicate members who recruited her have yet to be arrested. “Human trafficking, international drug trafficking is just not possible without corruption and official complicity. It’s just not possible,” says ex Hawks Investigator, Marcel Van Der Watt. However, after almost 11 years behind bars Thando Pendu was granted an amnesty. She landed at OR Tambo international Airport on 22 June. Her family was waiting excitedly; so too were armed police, deployed by the Hawks to protect her from threats by the syndicate that trafficked her. But Pendu is unfazed. “What I’d like to do is talk about human trafficking. They are all taking advantage of young girls, especially the ones coming from poor families and the ones who want fast money. But when you get into trouble, they don’t want to know you.” The full Special Assignment investigation will be broadcast this Sunday on SABC 3 and SABC News Channel 404 at 8pm slot due to Afcon 2019. Author- Hazel Friedman 