President Cyril Ramaphosa says now is the time that we have to make difficult choices that will not please everyone. Speaking during his State of the Nation Address (SONA) in Parliament on Thursday, Ramaphosa says that if goals set out in the National Development Plan (NDP) are to be met by the 6th administration, they must have specific targets towards which they must work. These, he says, include key areas such as economic transformation and job creation, education, social cohesion as well as building a capable, ethical and developmental state. During his address before a joint sitting of Parliament, Ramaphosa emphasised that as government they must remain focused on the goals of the NDP.  “We must restore the National Development Plan to its place at the centre of our national effort, to make it alive, to make it part of the lived experience of the South African people.” Ramaphosa maintains that with 10 years to go before we reach the year 2030 which is the target for the NDP, not enough progress has been made. He has urged all citizens to work together to reach these goals, “It is through our actions now that we will determine our destiny,” says Ramaphosa. As the country now sets its sights on the 2030 goal it is only through a bold and ambitious proclamation that these goals will be achieved. “ If we are to reinvigorate the implementation of the National Development Plan, we must cast our sights on the broadest of horizons,” expressed Ramaphosa.  Read: Ramaphosa’s speech in numbers: President Ramaphosa's 2019 Speech in numbers in Numbers 25 years   Over 25 years, we have done much to meet people’s basic needs, to reduce poverty and to transform a devastated economy that was built to serve the interests of the few. Allocate a significant portion of the R230 billion fiscal support that Eskom will require over the next 10 years 230 5 to 7 November We continue to build a pipeline of investments, which will be showcased at the second South African Investment Conference to be held on 5 to 7 November. R3.9 billion Allocated to the Land Bank to support black commercial farmers. 50 ﻿000 Government will also ensure that young people are employed in social economy jobs such as early childhood development and health care. National Youth Service to take on 50,000 young people a year. Two million more young people will be in employment in ﻿the next decade. 2 Million  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));  Read the President’s speech: 