 Former Energy Minister, Jeff Radebe says his integrity cannot be questioned. Radebe who recently resigned as a member of Parliament says he has served his organisation and the country with pride. Speaking to SABC News, the former minister, who has served in six different ministries since 1994, says he has worked to the best of his abilities. “My integrity has never been questioned – I’ve done my duty as a member of cabinet to the best of my ability.” Following his resignation from Parliament, damning allegations have been made against Radebe. This after former National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Mxolisi Nxasana told the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture that he had heard that Radebe offered former acting NPA head Nomgcobo Jiba the position. Jeff Radebe has refuted these claims, saying he did not have any influence in Nomgcobo Jiba’s appointment as Deputy National Director of Public Prosecutions at the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). “The appointment of a National Director of Public Prosecutions is a prerogative of the President, as the Head of the National executive. So there’s no truth or basis to what he is saying. No minister, including the Minister of Justice, has the power to install any National Director of Public Prosecutions.” Radebe resigned as a Member of Parliament along with a number of other former ministers after not being included in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s cabinet. Radebe says he now has other tasks to do as an African National Congress (ANC) member. “When my organisation, the ANC says there are different tasks to perform, I obliged so it was not an individual decision. The past 25 years have been a learning experience for myself to contribute whatever I can in making sure that all heads of state that have been democratically elected in SA can be able to do their job properly supported by us lieutenants of the organisation. I have been privileged to have served in many of these portfolios,” says Radebe. Watch a related video below:  