The seven contenders left in the race to replace Theresa May as Britain’s prime minister take different stances on Brexit. Here is a list of the various hopefuls and their declared strategies on whether Britain should leave with Theresa May’s negotiated deal or no deal at all: BORIS JOHNSON The former foreign secretary, 54, says he would get Britain out of the European Union (EU) “deal or no deal” when the October 31 deadline set by EU leaders comes around. However, he has also said a no-deal Brexit would be “a last resort, not something that anybody desires”. He has threatened to withhold the country’s Brexit bill if the EU does not offer improved withdrawal terms, and to scrap a controversial provision for the Irish border contained in the current divorce deal — both of which would be unacceptable to Brussels. A figurehead in the 2016 Brexit campaign, he was May’s foreign secretary until he resigned over her Brexit strategy. Charismatic and popular with grassroots Conservatives, he is seen as the favourite in the race, scooping up a growing number of pledges of support from cabinet members and MPs. Johnson picked up 114 votes in the first round of voting by Conservative MPs in the leadership race on Thursday. DOMINIC RAAB An ardent eurosceptic with a black belt in karate, the 45-year-old former Brexit minister resigned in protest at the deal struck with the EU by May. He says Britain should be ready to walk away from the EU without an agreement while still trying to negotiate a better deal than the one May signed. Raab sparked controversy last week by saying he would be willing to suspend parliament to force through a no-deal departure if necessary. Raab won 27 votes on Thursday. SAJID JAVID A former investment banker and the son of a Pakistani immigrant bus driver, Javid, 49, wants to be the face of a modern, multi-cultural and meritocratic Britain. An economic liberal, Javid voted for Britain to stay in the EU in 2016 but has since become an advocate of Brexit. He wants to leave on October 31, preferably with a deal but would prefer no deal over no Brexit. He has picked up the notable endorsement of Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson. Javid took 23 votes. JEREMY HUNT The foreign secretary supported remaining in the EU but has switched since then. The former businessman is a resilient politician, having headed the National Health Service for six years during a funding crisis. The 52-year-old says he will push hard for a new deal with Brussels without taking the possibility of a no-deal outcome off the table.Hunt won 43 votes on Thursday. MICHAEL GOVE The cerebral 51-year-old is among the most ardent eurosceptics left in May’s government but is seen as a possible unifying figure between the two wings of the party. Considered the second favourite, his campaign was thrown into turmoil this weekend after he admitted to using cocaine two decades ago. Gove has signalled he could be open to delaying Brexit again rather than leave without a deal on October 31.Gove picked up 37 votes. MATT HANCOCK The 40-year-old health secretary is one of the party’s rising stars, a moderate widely seen as competent at his job and skilful with the media. He opposed Brexit during the 2016 referendum before switching sides. Hancock scraped through with 20 votes on Thursday. RORY STEWART The international development secretary, 46, is a former Foreign Office official who served in the coalition administration in Iraq following the US-led invasion in 2003. He says a no-deal would be “damaging”. Stewart also barely made it on Thursday, winning 19 votes.