A high-level investigation team of specialists has been tasked to investigate the deaths of homeless men in Pretoria, after a fifth body was found. The body was found at a bus terminal about 400 meters from Unisa’s main campus in Muckleneuk. Police Spokesperson, Brigadier Mathapelo Peters didn’t want to confirm whether they are investigating a serial killer, but called for partnerships with private security and members of the public to help apprehend the suspect. The police task team will be compromised of specialists from Forensic services, pathologists, criminal psychologists, crime intelligence and detectives. Peters says so far five homeless middle-aged men were killed during the night over the past two to three weeks. “Without sowing panic amongst our communities, especially in the Muckleneuk area, we want to caution the public to be vigilant and be aware of this nocturnal prowler preying on the vulnerable. Ours, as the police, is to work around the clock and make sure that this madness is brought to an end. For now, we are in the process of getting these homeless people into shelters.” Police say they will be trying to put homeless people in Pretoria into shelters in the evening. Peters says that all victims were male. “While the investigation is already underway, police can at this point, further confirm that all victims were male, middle-aged, homeless and killed during the night. Gauteng Commissioner of police, Lieutenant General Elias Mawela has subsequently instructed a high-level task team, comprising of specialists from Forensic Services who include Pathologists and Criminal Psychologists; Crime Intelligence; and Detectives to prioritise the investigation of these mysterious murders and make sure the perpetrator(s) is/are unmasked and brought to book.” However, Pretoria does not have enough shelters to keep the homeless safe. That’s according to Danie Horn, owner of Tshwane Home of Hope. Horn says he does not believe the plan to house the homeless in shelters will work … “There’s no shelters for them to put them. I’ve helped a lady with two kids about two months ago and she showed me the chair she slept on in the police station. So, I don’t think there is shelters for that amount of people.”