The South African Police Service (SAPS) in the North West says it is committed to curbing crimes against women and children in the province. Police are maintaining a heavy presence at the official Women’s Day celebrations taking place at the Vryburg Showgrounds on Friday. While citing concerns over the increasing number of sexual assault and rape cases in the province, Provincial Police Spokesperson Brigadier Sabata Mokgwabone says he is optimistic about their efforts in fighting the scourge. “We know that one crime is one too many, but we are fortunately securing sentences in some of those cases we are investigating,” says Mokgwabone. He also raised concerns over the high number of assault cases reported to the police and urged  people not to resort to violence when addressing conflict. And as the country celebrates Women’s Month, Mokgwabone sent a stern warning to those perpetuating gender-based violence. “We would like to urge all men to conduct themselves properly, to respect women…and by respecting women it means that they must not assault or violate them in anyway. As the police, we are committed in making sure that we will take action against anybody who violates women and children.” Meanwhile, the official programme is about to get underway.  Minister of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and North West Premier Professor Job Mokgoro are some of the government officials attending the event which is expected to draw over 10 000 people.   President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the key note address. Different political leaders will honour the contribution of women as the country celebrates National Women’s Day. Final preparations underway at the Vryburg Showgrounds in the North West ahead of the official #WomensDay2019 celebrations. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/9KMq5fGxGL — Paballo Lephaka (@Pabi_Lephaka) August 9, 2019  President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the main celebrations at the Vryburg Show grounds in the North West. EFF leader Julius Malema will be the keynote speaker at the women’s event at Springbok in the Northern Cape. The leader of the DA Women’s Network Dr Nomafrench Mbombo will address the official opposition’s event at the Nelson Mandela Bay in the Eastern Cape.  -Reporting by Paballo Lephaka and Lerato Matlala