Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi says the learners that were involved in a bullying incident at Monument High School in Krugersdorp, west of Johannesburg, will have to write to the department in the next 48 hours explaining why they shouldn’t be suspended. A video of the incident went viral on social media, showing two learners engaged in a physical altercation. The MEC has visited the school and met with management and families of the concerned learners. Lesufi says he’s now waiting for a report from the school, “It is quite clear from the meeting that the incident that is recorded on the video was a follow up from the previous incident that happened on the 8th of August. “There are many versions and there are many areas where things didn’t happen the way we want them to happen. For example, the school didn’t report the matter formally to the district and to the department. That’s a serious breach of our protocols. We’ll wait for all the affected parties to put their side of the story and on the basis of that we’ll then be able to act,” adds Lesufi. Meanwhile, the Limpopo Education Department says a school principal, caught on video slapping learners during class, has withdrawn his resignation. The incident happened at Bopedi Bapedi High School at Ga-Marishane in Sekhukhune. The department has confirmed that the principal tendered his resignation on Wednesday. Departmental spokesperson Sam Makondo says the disciplinary process will continue. “Yes, we can confirm that indeed he has withdrawn his letter of resignation and citing that he had not given the whole matter proper thought. His letter of resignation, which was saying that he is resigning with immediate effect but at the same time saying he shall leave on the 22nd of August. We found that not to be talking to each other because immediate effect means you terminate the employment contract immediately. So the department is going ahead with the investigations, that means were are perusing disciplinary processes against him,” says Makondo.