A legal battle is looming between the ANC in Tshwane and the City of Tshwane Metro Council. The ANC wants the City’s executive mayor Stevens Mokgalapa and his executive to put on hold the more than R7-million golden handshake the council intends paying out to its former City Manager Moeketsi Mosola. Mosola’s contract with the City of Tshwane came to an abrupt end last month. Mosola and the Council disagreed over the continuation of the controversial consulting tender to GladAfrica. The ANC is accusing the DA-led administration of not adhering to proper procedures in an attempt to appoint the Acting City Manager to replace Mosola. ANC’s head of Performance Monitoring and Evaluation in the City of Tshwane Metro, Kgosi Maepa says  “When we saw media reports that 7, 8 or 9 million rand were being paid, we were very surprised. Then secondly, the ANC agreed when the executive mayor proposed to council the appointment of the COO. Afterwards, we saw the message that they’re extending the special leave of Dr Mosola. In fact, Dr Mosola is no longer an employee of the council. So it was also irregular that they will extend a sick leave because it can only be extended by a medical doctor. Lastly, the ANC took a decision therefore to send our attorneys to write to the executive mayor.” Golden handshake City of Tshwane mayor Stevens Mokgalapa has defended the golden handshake the Metro intends paying the outgoing City Manager. Mosola  and the City have reached a separation agreement, which will see him pocket more than R7 million. Despite Tshwane terminating the GladAfrica tender, Mokgalapa says the outgoing City Manager has not been found guilty of anything yet. He adds that parting ways with Mosola does not mean he’s off the hook from any prosecution. “At this point in time we know there was irregular expenditure and we referred the matter to the audit and performance committee. So it was not a question of exonerating someone.” For more on the story, listen to audio below: <a href="https://iono.fm/e/729146">Content hosted by iono.fm</a>  