Friends, colleagues and family members of the late Dr. Thandi Ndlovu have described her as a visionary and a powerful female social activist. A Special Provincial Funeral service was held in her honour at the House of Treasure Ministries in Rispark, south of Johannesburg on Friday. Ndlovu died in a car crash in Rustenburg in the North West on Saturday and she was laid to rest at the Avalon Cemetery in Soweto. A medical doctor by profession, Ndlovu has been hailed as a pioneer for venturing into the male-dominated construction industry when she founded Motheo Construction. The House of Treasure Ministries in Rispark was packed to capacity as family, friends and colleagues of the late Thandi Ndlovu, paid their last respects to the fearless business leader. Born in Soweto, Dr. Ndlovu joined the ANC’s military wing uMkhonto Wesizwe during the liberation struggle. She then studied medicine at Fort Hare University and worked as a doctor before making her move into the construction industry 22 years ago. Ndlovu has been described as a powerful female social activist and a champion for women’s empowerment. CEO of the South African Forum of Civil Engineering Contractors, Webster Mfebe, says Ndlovu will be remembered for being ambitious, intelligent and generous. “Ndlovu, Dr T was many things to many people: sister, mother, grandmother, friend, colleague, mentor and coach; tenacious, ambitious, adaptable, intelligent, articulate, ethical, dependable, a visionary, humanitarian, generous, philanthropist, spiritual being, a beautiful snazzy dresser, tall and towering and almost intimidating although soft-spoken and respectful and indeed an effective multi-award winning leader.” Ndlovu’s friends and family have also highlighted the need for society to tackle issues of gender-based violence – in her honour. Ndlovu’s colleague, Khanyi Chaba, has hailed her as a heroine who fought for women’s rights – despite experiencing domestic abuse. “Dr T shared with us that there was a moment in her life where she decided to walk away from her marriage, going away because of abuse that is what she said to everybody. Here we are today in complete disbelief that such a warrior like her could be subjected to a form of women abuse.” “Those who know her spoke about her as a fighter. She did not die as a victim of women abuse and I am happy her death had nothing to do with that. But ours is to make sure that we raise this issue, it is dealt with and if you really honour her, you are going to do something about it.” The ANC also paid tribute to the fearless Doctor, for the important role she played during the struggle against apartheid. Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula says Ndlovu dedicated her life to the cause of freedom. “Let us dip our revolutionary banner in honour of our trustworthy comrade, comrade Thandi. She dedicated her life to the cause of freedom from a young age.” “It was not by accident that she became part of the young men and women who swelled the ranks of the ANC and Umkhonto we Sizwe. She underwent rigorous training of MK in Angola. Those members of the June 16 detachment will attest to the fact of her resilience and steadfastness.” Click video below:   