World Entrepreneurs’ Day (WED) is commemorated every year on August 21, the purpose of which is to create awareness for entrepreneurship, innovation and leadership across the globe. It’s a day to honour those who start their business alone. It is the day of founders, managers, producers, contractors, industrialists, innovators, administrators, designers and producers. Founded by the Alliance of International Business Associations (AIBA) WED is a great opportunity to push philanthropic, social and ethical business practices via conferences, awards and initiatives.  Basetsana Matsetela, an entrepreneur from Mokopane in Limpopo says she always wanted to make a difference in people’s lives. Basetsana’s company produces aluminium doors and window frames. The business now employs about forty people.  Wednesday 21st August is World Entrepreneurs’ Day and that couldn’t be a better time to recognise innovation and leadership. With the unemployment rate having increased to 29% in the country, start-ups may potentially regenerate economies and create jobs. The purpose of the World Entrepreneurs’ Day is to create awareness and celebrate the people who embark on the journey of starting their own business.     The pedestrian economic environment presents a perfect opportunity for entrepreneurs to thrive. This is according to two entrepreneurial experts who share insights on how entrepreneurs can achieve this. Their advice comes as the World observes World Entrepreneurs’ Day today – the 21st of August.   A Port Elizabeth man’s entrepreneurial nous took him down this road and he added this unusual farming idea to his other agricultural products.   Vuyi Zondi, speaks about her skincare brand, Corium Skincare at the Riverside Incubation Hub in Sandton.  Afrika Mkhangala is a farmer and entrepreneur who also works in the media, and logistics spaces. He speaks to SABC News on World Entrepreneurs’ Day . A 31-year old Johannesburg-based entrepreneur has sold out his entire range of luxury leather bags…all of this after tweeting about it online. Described as a fusion of African luxury and Scandinavian design elements, Inga Gubeka’s line of leather goods earned him recognition in Forbes’ Top 30 Africans Under 30 in 2016.  SME specialist reporter Liabo Setho at the Riverside Incubation Hub in Sandton.  The pedestrian economic environment presents a perfect opportunity for entrepreneurs to thrive. This is according to two entrepreneurial experts who share insights on how entrepreneurs can achieve this. Their advise come as the world observes World Entrepreneurs’ Day today. World Entrepreneurs’ Day creates awareness about entrepreneurship, innovation and leadership throughout the world.   African problems require solutions by Africans from Africa – that’s according to an International non governmental organization, AGCO. The organisation’s Metti Richenhagen is currently in South Africa visiting agricultural projects in KwaZulu-Natal. AGCO was launched in 2018 to help address hunger challenges in various countries. SABC News chats to Metti Richenhagen who is the managing director of AGCO agriculture foundation.