Former Minister of Environmental Affairs Nomvula Mokonyane has paid an emotional tribute to her friend, the late Gavin Watson. A memorial service for the embattled Bosasa Chief Executive Officer has been taking place in Johannesburg. Watson died on Monday morning after his car collided with a pillar. Bosasa is now known as African Global Operations. There is a lot of speculation surrounding Watson’s death in the crash close to OR Tambo International Airport. Watson has been implicated during the State Capture Inquiry as one of the key figures in allegedly attempting to bribe senior African National Congress  deployees. Mokonyane has added her voice to the tributes. “Just to say to the Watson family they never loved you because of your conviction, they still will not love you today, they will never forgive you for who you are, just like Jesus Christ who was persecuted yet he was sent on earth to come in and become the symbol of faith, the symbol of pain.” Meanwhile Jared Watson, the nephew of the late Gavin Watson has slammed the media for what he says is the manner in which it recently reported on African Global Operations, as well as that of his uncle. Bosasa has been implicated at the State Capture Commission in bribes allegedly paid to senior ANC leaders in alleged attempts to secure tenders. Watson has hailed Bosasa as a firm that supported the country’s economic empowerment. “He took such pride in Bosasa, the directors and employees of the company that was able to contribute to the education of so many, to support crèches around the country, support economic empowerment, to invest in charitable organisations, and brought in so much joy. And yes, if he is guilty he supported the ANC, which he had done since the 70s and never shied away from that. The same media that vilified Gavin and his brothers in the 70s and 80s has vilified Gavin and Bosasa recently with no concern for the good works being destroyed in the process. “ His funeral service is due to be held at the Feathermarket Hall in Port Elizabeth next Tuesday. Click below for more on the story: 