The family of the late business tycoon, Dr Thandi Ndlovu have expressed their shock at her sudden passing.  Family spokesperson Mapaseka Mokwele says they are still coming to terms with her death following a car crash on Saturday near Rustenburg in North West. Mokwele has added that funeral arrangements for Ndlovu have not yet been finalised. “They have not been finalised as yet and we will obviously alert everyone once the family has made those decisions. It comes as a real shock, it comes as a total shock for the family. We are hoping to have a memorial service as well.” Mokwele says Ndlovu gave tirelessly to the upliftment of women and will be sorely missed. “In those spaces making sure that women are taken care of in all the industries she worked. Just a day before she passed – there was a dinner that was held for her by a group of 24 ladies just celebrating her and just saying you’ve done so much. And she stood up and said a beautiful speech talking about how grateful she was and at some point she said she’s grateful you guys are appreciating me while I’m still alive.” Tributes are continuing to pour in for the late business tycoon. Ndlovu, a medical doctor, created a successful national civil and building company that is black and female-owned. She was also the former president of the Black Business Council for the Built Environment.  Following the sudden passing of Ndlovu, acting President David Mabuza also sent condolences on behalf of Government. Mabuza described Ndlovu someone who led an impeccable life as a political activist and a champion for women empowerment. “It is indeed a sad time in our nation to lose such a phenomenal woman and leader of the people. Dr Ndlovu has been at the forefront of almost all our women empowerment initiatives, wherein she pioneered the black economic empowerment and was foremost in the peace and reconstruction efforts of our country and continent. She played a key role in promoting dialogue for sustainable peace and development in the Great Lakes region,” said Mabuza. The African National Congress (ANC) in a statement described her as a person who spent her free time caring for party stalwarts such as Adelaide Tambo and Ruth Mompati. The ANC has conveyed its condolences to Ndlovu’s family and says the party is saddened by the death of the former member of the party’s former military wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe. 