Public Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane is pleased that a court has affirmed her findings following the investigation into the management of funds during the funeral of former President Nelson Mandela in 2013. Mkhwebane, through her Spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe, has welcomed this development as it paves the way for the full implementation of the remedial action. The High Court in the Eastern Cape in Grahamstown has upheld the Public Protector, Mkhwebane‘s findings, In December 2017, Mkhwebane found that the Eastern Cape provincial government had improperly redirected about R300 million of public funds to pay for the funeral of former president Nelson Mandela. She also found that some of the funds were meant for the provision of running water, electricity sanitation, ablution facilities, replacement of mud-schools and refurbishing hospitals. Former provincial Director-General Marion Mbina-Mthembu took the Public Protector’s report, which was released in December 2017, on review. Segalwe says, “She also welcomes the court’s decision to award her costs, which will go a long way in supplementing the pultry litigation that her office has at its disposal. This judgement will further help people understand that to merely take the Public Protector’s report on review does not mean that the report is of poor quality. It is merely an avenue available to those parties that are aggrieved by the decision to seek a different decision from another forum.” The High Court in the Eastern Cape in Grahamstown has upheld the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane‘s findings, that the former provincial director-general Marion Mbina-Mthembu had conducted herself improperly in the disbursement of funds for the late former president Mandela’s funeral. This after Mbina-Mthembu took the Public Protector’s report, which was released in December 2017, on review.  Mkhwebane is pleased that the high court has affirmed her findings on the plundering of public resources during the burial of Madiba. 