A North West woman is calling on government to formally recognise people with a condition known as Hyperhidrosis. Those who suffer from it, sweat excessively. Katlego Manicus’s 11-year-old son’s school work suffers as a result of the condition. Manicus says that the condition is affecting her son’s school work. “If he writes and he sweats the book becomes unneat and it starts to tear and it worries me a lot.” It is the sweat on his hands that affects him most. His school work is suffering as a result. Manicus tried many methods suggested by the medical fraternity, but she found the only way to manage the condition was for her son to wear a glove. Some teachers are against this. Manicus has called for the government to invent gloves that will help people with Hyperhidrosis manage their condition. “At least if they can invent a glove whereby everybody who is experiencing this condition will be able to use it and that glove will be known just like any other medicine; like children who have Asthma, they are using inhalers so with this glove it will be a known thing. I don’t need to go to school and explain, come back again the teacher forgot they told him to take the glove and I still have to go back and write an email.” However, head of dermatology at Tshepong in Klerksdorp hospital complex, Dr Olehile Kgabale, says the glove only contains the condition and is not a treatment. Kgabale admits that when all else fails, the only other option is an operation. “So it’s already causes social embarrassment, it sometimes cause anxiety. Now the thing about anxiety is that you may sometimes have a perpetuation of the condition because of anxiety. So it’s a vicious cycle; you sweat, you became anxious you become anxious you sweat more so it’s sort of stresses you a bit so it really makes most of the patients or patients or people who are having this condition to refrain from socialising.” It’s hoped that a solution will soon be found to Manicus’s son’s Hyperhidrosis so he can attend school with ease and not be continuously be anxious about his condition. FOR MORE, WATCH VIDEO BELOW: 