Opposition parties in the Free State are calling for dissolution of the cash-strapped Maluti A Phofung Municipality in Qwaqwa. This after a sheriff executed a court order to attach municipal assets worth R2.8 billion debt for failing to honour Eskom debts. The politically-unstable municipality tops the country’s list on defaulting municipalities. Maluti a Phofung is on the brink of collapse. The municipality was placed under administration more than two years ago. It has been ravaged by violent industrial actions, with workers protesting over unpaid salaries. Governance is at its lowest ebb following the expulsion of 16 ANC councillors. The attached assets include vehicles, desktops and printers. Eskom has confirmed to the SABC that a court order has been issued to seize assets of the Maluti A Phofung Municipality for dishonouring payment arrangements. The Matjhabeng Municipality is also one of the most owing municipalities with over R1 billion in debt. Opposition parties are calling for the municipality to be disbanded. Patricia Kopane, Free State DA leader, says that there must be new elections for leadership in the area. “The municipality is no longer the municipality. It must actually be dissolved. There must be new election and what happened in the Maluti A Phofung, it is clear that the municipality, since its establishment in 2001, was never meant to benefit the people of Maluti A Phofung, but was to benefit the politicians.” Mandisa Makeseni, Free State EFF leader, says that there is nothing left in the municipality that will benefit the people of Maluti A Phofung. “We call upon the MEC of COGTA to dissolve that municipality because there’s nothing that is left that will benefit the people of Maluti A Phofung. The money was spent irregularly. No one was willing to assist the people of Maluti A Phofung.” Free State Co-operative Governance HoD Mokete Duma insists it has concluded a new payment arrangement with Eskom. “We are on top of the situation and I think by tomorrow, the sheriff will return the goods because it’s all about the outstanding debts with Eskom, which the municipality has committed in writing.” Meanwhile, ANC in the province says it is consulting with the Free State government on the matter.