The musician Bongekile Simelane known as Babes Wodumo has not opened a case of assault after she was seen on a video being beaten allegedly by her Kwaito star boyfriend Mandla Maphumulo known as Mampintsha. The police say they have the ability to take over and investigate the alleged abuse of Babes Wodumo without formal charges being laid. This, as authorities work to authenticate the video which purports to show musician Mampintsha violently abusing Wodumo. Her family has said the video is real and not a publicity stunt and that she will lay charges over the matter. There have been calls for Mampintsha’s arrest from Ministers, MEC’s, various celebrities and fans. National Police Spokesperson, Vish Naidoo, says their investigation will be strengthened if someone who witnessed the abuse or if Babes Wodumo herself came forward to give a statement. “In a case like this, we can take over the case as a state case. Where we can know if it’s been witnessed by a police officer or if it’s witnessed by an individual who’s prepared to give us a statement we can register a docket and investigate it. But ultimately, the most important thing is to have an opportunity to interview the victim, but we cannot take the video itself. But yes we can take over this investigation as a state case, but it always helps the course of the investigation if we have the statement of the victim.” Naidoo says National Police Commissioner Khehla Sitole has urged Babes Wodumo to immediately open a case of assault at the nearest police station. “The national commissioner General Khehla Sithole has learnt with shock and seriously concerned about the contents of this video which has been circulating on social media which depicts a woman being assaulted by a man.” Babes Wodumo’s sister, Nondumiso, says the artist is traumatised and will definitely be pressing charges against Mampintsha. “I can confirm that it has happened. It’s not a story for any campaign. I think my sister’s tears is not worth any campaign for now. The moment I saw him lay a hand on her, I went blank because it has been years. This is not the first time this is happening. Sometimes I feel helpless. She is definitely gonna press charges. I think the time has come for her to she realise that ‘if I don’t stop this now, this time I am going to die.’” WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT:   South African have reacted with shock and disgust over the alleged assault. The incident has been trending on video since Sunday night.    