Gauteng’s Sports, Culture and Recreation MEC Faith Mazibuko will have to face her party’s Integrity Committee following an audio clip that went viral. In the clip Mazibuko is heard verbally attacking her senior managers and implying that she did not care for legal procurement processes. Mazibuko could also be heard telling the managers that they should be grateful she employed them despite their race. The African National Congress (ANC) has now indicated that they are referring her matter to the Integrity Committee. The ANC in Gauteng has described the utterances of Mazibuko as unfortunate, regrettable and embarrassing. In an audio recording, that’s since gone viral on social media, Mazibuko can be heard shouting at her executive managers for their alleged failure to deliver five sport facilities known as Combo courts. She goes on to tell the manager that she wants to use the facilities to campaign for elections. Mazibuko has since apologised.  ANC Gauteng Secretary General Jacob Khawe says the matter will be referred to the party’s integrity committee. “We condemn and distance ourselves from such utterances.  That’s why we called her this morning to come and explain her utterances.” “First we agree officials that they must be held accountable on the plans and targets set before the end of the financial year that if they made commitments to build 15 of these courts and at this stage five are not constructed and budgeted for an explanation must be given as to why they have not spent that money.” The Public Service Commission (PSC) has described Mazibuko’s actions as bullying. PSC commissioner, Michael Seloane also called it a human rights violation. “In the MEC recording, we see this action among those that are bullying. The PSC was launched  to protect civil servants from arbitrary decisions from MECs. This action we are not happy with it. We condemn it. We would like to see Batho Pele is always respected.” Meanwhile the State Security Agency is reported to be investigating the leak of the recording. But Law expert, Steven Ramafoko explains that although the Constitution provides for the right to privacy the MEC may not have a legal basis to take action against the person who leaked the recording if the person was a part of the conversation during which the remarks were made. “The MEC can enforce her rights to privacy, provided the recording party does not participate in the conversation so if a participant is not just recording but is actively involved in the conversation then the exception kicks in and therefore whatever evidence is obtained can be used, provided authenticity.” Click video below:  Click audio below: <a href="https://iono.fm/e/665478">Content hosted by iono.fm</a>