Heavy rainfall has resulted in the closure of several roads in the Overberg District of the Western Cape. Two roads in the town of Swellendam have been closed due to flooding. Provincial Traffic Chief, Kenny Africa, has also advised motorists to use alternative routes, as the N2 near Riviersonderend is closed to traffic. “The N2 just outside Riviersonderend, about 30 kilometres on the Caledon side has been closed due to flooding.  Motorists are urged to please make use of alternative routes. Also the HuguenotTunnel due to a power failure there’s no trucks allowed through the tunnel, only light motor vehicles can go through at this point of time but heavy motor vehicles need to make use of the old Du Toit’s Kloof Pass, “says Africa. Meanwhile, rainy conditions are expected to continue in the South-Western parts of the Western Cape on Monday. Forecaster at the Cape Town Weather Office, Kate Turner, says about 30 to 50 millimetres of rain has fallen in most areas since Sunday, with the highest recorded reading of 145 millimetres at Tygerhoek near Swellendam in the Overberg. Turner says similar conditions are expected until Tuesday morning. “Continuous rain and showers expected over our South-Western parts into the Cape Metropole and Cape Winelands and Overberg areas into the afternoon as well as overnight into tomorrow morning we’re expecting the last bit before it starts to clear up,” says Turner. In Durban, clean-up operations are under way in KwaMashu, after heavy rains caused flooding in certain areas. It appears that blocked storm water drains contributed to the flooding. Residents here are counting the cost of the damage. Many lost furniture and electric appliances as homes were flooded.  It rained heavily in the city on Sunday and overnight. Some of the residents say a temporary bridge prevented the free-flow of water, which resulted in flooding.  Phoenix, Amaoti and Verulam were among areas affected. Parts of the city’s roads were flooded. This was a result of litter blocking storm water drains. The municipality is to clear blocked drainage systems. Disaster management teams have been dispatched to affected areas. Government officials also inspected some of the storm damage. Watch related video below for more on the story: