The new data rules by Icasa will not be implemented by Friday.  The communications regulator extended the deadline for mobile service providers to allow them more time to implement the new charter. Telecommunications regulatory body has published new data regulations that will curtail high out of bundle rates that mobile operators charge their consumers but has extended the deadline for certain regulations. Data struggles seem to be partly over. Monthly data bundles will now be rolled over at no cost.  A fight Icasa says is purely to protect the customer. Icasa’s Spokesperson Paseka Maleka says, “Our intention as the regulator is to promote transparency and to make sure these service providers comply with fair business practices and that customers get value for their money.” Social media was up in arms earlier this week after Vodacom said they’d be charging to roll over data. “We cannot afford such as customers of Vodacom and Vodacom is expensive. It might be a powerful brand but it’s expensive yoh!” says one customer. Another one says, “I will not continue with this service provider its expensive.” Prompting the mobile giant to make a swift U-turn. Icasa had come out and said that Vodacom was side-stepping the rules. So what does this rollover mean for consumers?  It simply means the life of unused data bundles will be extended.
Therefore, users can surf for as long as their data is not depleted. Some of the unused data can also be sent to friends and family. Icasa says the aim of the extension is to ensure the enforcement of the deadline does not result in unintended consequences to both consumers and operators. Mobile operators have until the second of next month to fully comply with the new regulations. “The regulations are basically about addressing issues relating to unfair business practices by network operators. Continuously consumers will be able to rollover their data when their data is about to expire. Consumers will also be able to transfer data to someone on the same network. This is to ensure that consumers do not find themselves with bill shock,” Masaka explained. Watch video below: 