On Thursday Parliament’s Communications Committee continued to interview shortlisted candidates to fill eight vacancies in the SABC Board. A total of 24 people were shortlisted. One of the nominees is Mary Papaya. Papaya is one of the founders of the South African National Editor’s Forum, she is a journalist and media activist. She told the panel interviewing the SABC board candidates that listing Co-operative Governance Minister Zweli Mkhize as a reference in her CV has nothing to do with politics. She was asked by Democratic Alliance MP Phumzile van Damme why she listed Mkhize as one of her references. Papaya told the Parliamentary committee that Mkhize’s department was also involved in the return of the remains of Nat Nakasha, a project Papaya was spearheading. Watch for more:  Bernedette Muthien was the next candidate to be interviewed. She has held senior executive management positions in academia, civil society and the public sector in South Africa and abroad. She is an accomplished facilitator, researcher and poet who designs, implements and evaluates projects for business, donors, government and NGOs. Watch for more:  The next candidate was Nokuzola Ehrens  who has over 36 years experience in ICT, 11 of which were in Technical occupations from programming to systems design and systems analysis. She started as a Trainee Programmer at Huletts Aluminium in Pietermaritzburg in 1982, an affirmative action position hosted by the Training Department, an opportunity that boosted her career in ICT. Ehrens worked for all types of industries focusing on IT & ICT development. She says she is ready to open opportunities for more worthy candidates to enter and flourish in the ICT Industry especially girls and women but not neglecting the boy child who also needs a positive start in his career life. Watch for more:  Mfanozelwe Shozi Watch for more:   Mmabatho Ramagoshi was the last candidate to be interviewed on Thursday. Ramagoshi is a South African government official, and the current Chief Executive Officer of the South African Heritage Resources Agency and Secretary-General of the International Alliance of Women. She is also chair of the board of directors of the National Film and Video Foundation, appointed by the South African government, and has a background as a Provincial General Manager at the SABC. Watch for more: 