The Gauteng Provincial Government has terminated its R600 million worth of contracts with controversial facility and management company Bosasa. Over the past 15 years the Gauteng government has been doing business with Bosasa through the department of Social Development. Premier David Makhura says all implicated officials in the current investigation will still be held accountable. He warns that no stone will be left unturned in pursuit of the truth, and promises to deal with officials who try to avoid prosecution by resigning from respective departments. This follows revelations at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture that the company paid bribes in securing multi million rand contracts. Makhura says he has instructed the Provincial Ethics Advisory Council to look into other contracts, that might be linked to Bosasa and investigate any wrongdoings. Makhura says the contracts were found in the social development department. “Sometimes officials do wrong things and decide to resign, they think that if they leave they go work in another municipality, in another province or even in a national government they think it is done. I have said that’s no longer the case, if we are to deal seriously with corruption any of the officials and i am not suggesting there is but we’ve got to satisfy ourselves. Because the serious allegations that have been flying at the Zondo commission, we have to satisfy ourselves there. Our ethics advisory council is going to do a review of that, if they say with regard to this period of the contract the way it was awarded. Because the contract they had awarded in a period and a period. If there is an indication that comes from the review that’s been done that says there’s specific officials that acted wrongly, we will go for them.” Meanwhile, the National Association of Democratic Lawyers believes there must be prosecution if there’s sufficient evidence. The State Capture Commission resumes on Monday with an official from Denel expected to take the stand.  Watch related video below: 