African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa has dismissed criticism of his organisation’s final deployee list, submitted to the IEC this week. He has appealed to all South Africans to respect what he called the ANC’s internal democratic processes regarding the compilation of its candidates list. The ANC’S final deployee list drew criticism from across the board. Critics say some people on the lists are implicated in wrongdoing while others have been named at the state capture commission. Opposition political parties also argue that some of those on the list were implicated in wrongdoing, while others were named at the State Capture Commission. Ramaphosa spoke to SABC News during his party’s door-to-door campaign at Ikageng township in Potchefstroom,  North West. “There may be people on that list who are either be named as having been involved in this and that, and we say we need to look at two processes – democratic process as directed by the membership of the ANC.” “And two, another process which will do with any form of any wrongdoing; and if there is any form of wrongdoing the rule of law has to take its own course. But that is the list of the ANC, it contains a lot of good leaders of high standing.” Ramaphosa is positive the party is united in the North West.  “Unity is emerging. Many people can feel and touch the unity resolve in the province. And so, there’s renewal that is beginning to take place.” The ANC president has also reiterated his party’s position, saying that all the mayors in the North West, implicated in the VBS saga, must step aside. Four municipalities in the province combined invested over R314 million in VBS. “In other areas and other provinces where similar thing has happened, action has been taken to basically say they must step aside. Obviously the law must take its own course, they must be charged if there are any charges to be preferred against them, so we want the rule of law apply. So those who have been involved in things that have not been completely right we want them to step aside,” the ANC president explained. Ramaphosa will meet religious leaders and students in Mahikeng on Sunday. Additional reporting by Jake Mokoma. 