Former SABC Group Executive of Risk and Governance Itani Tseisi says the most worrying issues of poor governance at the SABC started five years ago. Tseisi was the last candidate to be interviewed by Parliament’s Communications Committee on Wednesday to possibly fill one of eight vacancies in the SABC Board. He made headlines in 2016 when he gave evidence to the Parliamentary Inquiry into SABC –  about  rampant corruption at the public broadcaster. On Wednesday Tseisi had to give an account of what happened when he was at the SABC. “Most of the worrying governance issues actually almost started to be visible run about say 2014 because 2013 I was not working of the SABC. And by then the fortunate from my side was that I was a Group Executive of  Risks and Governance; so my responsibility was to provide assurance to the executive committee as well as the risk and audit committees. I think they were separate committees at the time, about this risk and governance issues.”  ‘I did not leave the SABC because Motsoeneng’s bullying tactics’ Former SABC Group CEO Lulama Mokhobo says she did not leave the SABC because of former Chief Operations Office Hlaudi Motsoeneng’s bullying tactics at the public broadcaster. Mokhobo is the fourth candidate to be interviewed by parliament’s communications committee on Wednesday – to fill eight vacancies in the SABC Board. A total of 24 people were shortlisted. Responding to DA MP Phumzile van Damme, Mokhobo says she was driven away from the SABC for standing up against illegal decisions that were taken on the MultiChoice deal. “I did not leave because of Mr Motsoeneng’s bullying. I left because there was a concerted effort to get me out of the company. And this effort came after the fight we had over the multi-choice agreement. And that multi-choice agreement actually blurred over into a consultative forum that Minister Carrim put together. He was the Minister of Communications at that time. And in that consultative forum an illegal position was taken by the then chair of the board Ellen Tshabalala who claimed that the board of the SABC had agreed there must be no encryption on the set-top boxes.” 