The impact Cyclone Idai is still being felt by many communities in Chimanimani in Zimbabwe. Hundreds of people have been displaced, while 138 have died. The United Nations has called on the international community, to assist countries that are affected. Chimanimani is the region that was hard hit. Communities in the region are marooned and aid is now trickling in but for the victims of Cyclone Idai, life will never be the same. A women affected by the cyclone says she will never forget it and that she has lost everything. She is not the only one; many are now living in camps while others are still receiving medical attention due to injuries sustained during the cyclone. Children are missing school and there is fear that it is going to take time before they are back in class. South African Non-Governmental Organisation Gift of the Givers and Zimbabwe’s Defence Force is delivering aid but more is needed as many communities are still waiting for assistance.  Meanwhile, Mozambique’s Minister of Land and Rural Development has thanked the South African government, the South African National Defence Force and aid organisations for their swift response following cyclone Idai. Celso Correia says the official death toll now stands at almost 450 as they reach remote areas and villages in the Sofala and Manica provinces. Idai has not just killed and injured people, farms and homes have also been destroyed. Malaria is also adding to the woes.  Minister Sisulu to travel to Mozambique and Zimbabwe International Relations and Cooperation Minister, Lindiwe Sisulu, will travel to Mozambique and Zimbabwe on Friday, to hand over donations aimed at assisting victims of Cyclone Idai. Minister Sisulu is expected to visit the city of Beira in Mozambique and the Chimanimani District in eastern Zimbabwe to hand over the donations made by South African citizens, companies and members of the Diplomatic Corps, who heeded the earlier call for assistance by the Minister. The donations include financial aid, clothes, water purifiers, non-perishable food items and blankets. 