Paying a bribe for a job isn’t often addressed at high level boardroom meetings. SA Democratic Teachers Union’s (SADTU) jobs for pals is the most recently exposed scandal. This Sunday night, SABC News investigates jobs for sale at Transnet. Thabang Masupha is one of millions of desperate job seekers. He’s been out of work for three years and his wife’s part-time job is their only income to feed a family of six. He almost fell victim to cash for job scandal. “I did want to buy that job so maybe I can have a life to make for my kids to have a better life,” says Masupha. He says a Transnet employee led him to another employee at the parastatal who promised to secure employment at a fee. “He gave me the numbers of this gentleman he said if I give him money he will give me a job there by Transnet. I said R2500 I don’t have. He said  maybe if I find R1000 he will put me at work and I will pay him the other money when I’m in Transnet.” Thabang’s relatives discouraged him against paying the bribe. SABC News met up with him to investigate how jobs are sold at Transnet. Transnet officials have since been informed of the SABC News investigation. Transnet GM Talent Management and Recruitment, Ogotlhe Sathekge says: “We are going to investigate internally to determine if the alleged employee is a Transnet employee. If it is a Transnet employee  we will implement our own internal employee relations processes if it is to be found definitely ours we will open criminal charges.  Should this person really have employed people in this manner we would urge this people to come forward and address it internally with SAPS.” This scandal adds to the embattled State Owned Entity’s much publicised controversy around mismanagement. The SOE will soon be in the spotlight at the on-going Zondo Commission on State Capture. “I wouldn’t want to engage more on the corruption and state owned company at this point in time because I think we are dealing with the recruitment part. However from a recruitment perspective it is something we are dealing with. The corruption we are dealing.” Unemployment is rife in South Africa and many people won’t be as lucky as Thabang – spending money they don’t have on a chance to change their lives in a struggling economy. WATCH BELOW: 