Transnet National Ports Authority’s Port of Ngqura has gone green. The harbour, near Port Elizabeth, is the only port out of the nine in South Africa with its green status. This is due to environmental legislation that it has been subjected to for its current and future development. Operational since 2009, the newest addition to the ports of South Africa is now the most advanced. Ngqura now relocates its plants and animals from proposed development sites, and puts them back when it’s safe to do so. Alongside this, they preserve their vegetation and fish. Acting Port manager Thulani Dubeko says the port is using poison-free methods. “We are using poison free methods like, how to deal with rats. So we’ll use rodent traps on the ships. We use rodent guards on the ships and we will use birds of prey like the owls that will catch any rats or any things that are within the port. We have a very strict policy when it comes to balance system management. Those are some of the most important initiatives we have come up with.” The new “green” changes include a sand bypass system. The system ensures the natural flow of sand that the harbour disrupts, and avoids erosion. These changes and adaptations benefit this port as many foreign businesses are attracted to green operations. Mandilakhe Mdodana says this will help them deal with problems such as global warming and species extinction. “It benefits us in terms of if you look at there are a lot of challenges, global warming species going to extinctions right here around this port. On one of the islands we are having a massive population of African penguins which is getting extinct and it is the duty of us to protect those species and we know the impact of rhino poaching and those likes it is important for all the citizens to make sure that we protect the environment because it sustains us.” Although these implementations came at a hefty price, its results will be harvested. Failure to comply with legislation will result in fines or even sanctions. FOR MORE, WATCH VIDEO BELOW: 