The Constitutional Court will on Thursday hear an application for leave to appeal relating to the acceptable standards of conduct for determining whether advocates are fit to hold office. In April last year the General Council of the Bar of South Africa instituted an application in the High Court in Pretoria against suspended deputy prosecutions boss Advocate Nomcobo Jiba, suspended Special director of Public prosecutions, advocate Lawrence Mrwebi and North Gauteng director of Public Prosecutions Sibongile Mzinyathi. The council was seeking an order to strike the respondents off the roll of advocates, alternatively, to suspend them from practising as advocates. The High Court found that Jiba and Mrwebi were not fit and proper persons to be advocates due to the way they handled the Richard Mdluli case and that their names be struck from the roll. It however dismissed the application against Mzinyathi with costs. Jiba and Mrwebi appealed to the Supreme Court of Appeals which ruled that the General Council of the Bar failed to establish the alleged offending conduct on the part of Jiba. With regards to Mrwebi the SCA agreed he was not fit and proper to practice as an advocate but that the striking off the roll sanction was inappropriate as he personally did not gain anything. Shrouded in Controversy: Nomgcobo Jiba’s years as Acting NDPP TIMELINE: Acting National Director of Public Prosecutions head 28 Dec 2011 appoints... 2012 Reports emerge that in September 2010, Zuma had the criminal record of the Jiba’s husband, Booker Nhantsi, expunged. 2013 DA calls for Jiba to be held in contempt of court for failing to hand over the so-called Zuma spy tapes. Jiba fails to submit copies of her qualifications. Jiba and Mrwebi amongst senior officials General Council of the Bar Intends to strike off the advocates roll by bringing High Court application. 2015 NPA confirms it served summons on NDP, Mxolisi Nxasana as the employer, to serve it on Jiba, to appear on criminal charges. Jiba appears In the Specialized Commercial Crime Court in Pretoria. Facing two counts of fraud and one of perjury. NPA head Shaun Abrahams announces Jiba will not be prosecuted and the matter will be withdrawn from the specialized commercial crimes court. 2016 NDPP Adv. Shaun Abrahams places Jiba and Mrwebi on special leave at their request on Friday. Zuma gives notice of intention to suspend both Jiba and Lawrence Mrwebi from office, pending an enquiry into their fitness to hold office. 2017 North Gauteng High Court grants Jiba and Mrwebi leave to appeal against an earlier order that their names be struck from the roll of advocates. North Gauteng High Court sets aside prosecutions boss Shaun Abrahams’ withdrawal of charges against his deputy‚ Nomgcobo Jiba. 2018 SCA overturns ruling that struck Nomgcobo Jiba, Lawrence Mrwebi off the roll of advocates. President Cyril Ramaphosa gives Jiba and Mrwebi notice that he intends to suspend them – and has asked them for reasons why he shouldn’t. President Ramaphosa expresses intention to institute Inquiries into Jiba And Mrwebi. NPA withdraws application for leave to appeal decision to withdraw charges against Jiba. Ramaphosa suspends Mrwebi and Jiba from NPA. Jiba and Mrwebi investigation: Terms of reference revealed. 21 January 2019 ﻿- Inquiry into Nomgcobo Jiba, Lawrence Mrwebi to Start Soon 2019 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Three incidents which haunt Jiba’s legacy: (1) Expunging of husband's criminal record (2) Questions about her qualifications (3) Suspension from NPA (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));