On Wednesday Parliament’s Communications Committee continued to interview shortlisted candidates to fill eight vacancies in the SABC Board. A total of 24 people were shortlisted. Former South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) Board member Sembie Danana told Parliament’s Communications Committee that he resigned from the board previously after they failed to remove former COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng. He was the first to be interviewed on Wednesday. Danana, lives in Mthatha but spends most of his time in Johannebsurg. He studied a B.A journalism degree at Rhodes University, B.A. (Hons) in Anthropology and has a  MBA. Danana serves as Chairman of a branch of the African National Congress (ANC). He serves as Director of Waterpan Mining Company (Proprietary) Limited, Ezulwini Mining Company (Proprietary) Limited and First Uranium (Proprietary) Limited. He served as a Non-Executive Member of South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC). WATCH BELOW:  Chief Livhuwani Matsila, the second candidate, has a Masters degree in Science. He says he has worked in many sectors such as agriculture and heritage. WATCH BELOW:  William Malema Ramoshabo holds a B Com degree from the University of Limpopo. He is one of the founding members of the Black Business Council. WATCH BELOW:  Adv Lufuno Nevondwe has a Masters of Law (LLM), University of Venda 2005. Mini dissertation passed with distinction. Bachelor of Law (LLB), University of Venda 2003. Graduated with numerous distinctions. Doctor of Law (LLD in view) candidate, University of Limpopo. Certificate, Corporate Governance and Advanced Emotional Intelligence and Leadership Skills and Ombudsman Training. WATCH BELOW:  Lulama Mokhobo has extensive executive leadership experience in both the private and public sectors. She was previously SABC Group Executive for Public Broadcasting Services. After obtaining her BA degree from the University of Botswana and Swaziland, she completed her Master of Science qualification at the Utah State University in the USA. Mokhobo says she did not leave the SABC because of former Chief Operations Officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng’s bullying tactics at the public broadcaster. WATCH BELOW:  Mr Mpiyakhe Richard Mkholo has studied at various universities and in 1994-1997 he worked for the SABC. On SABC 3 he was a commissioning editor for documentaries. Even after leaving the SABC he worked as a communication person and engaged with the SABC. He also engaged with the public broadcaster extensively when it embarked on the editorial policy review. WATCH BELOW:  Dr Marcia Socikwa is currently serving as a Vice- principal of Operations and Facilities at Unisa. She studied at Wits BA Hons majoring in African Literature Studies. She did her Masters and Doctorate abroad.  She also had worked at Icasa. WATCH BELOW:   Former SABC Group Executive of Risk and Governance Itani Tseisi says the most worrying issues of poor governance at the SABC started five years ago. Tseisi was the last candidate to be interviewed by Parliament’s Communications Committee on Wednesday. He made headlines in 2016 when he gave evidence to the Parliamentary Inquiry into SABC –  about  rampant corruption at the public broadcaster. WATCH BELOW: 