The City of Durban has warned against elevated levels of mercury that have been found in the Umngcwini stream in Cato Ridge following a fire at a warehouse that was storing very toxic waste for decades. After the incident, the municipality issued a warning that people should not use the water for drinking or irrigation. British-based Thor Chemical, who ran the site before Metallica Chemicals, stored mercury waste at the site for more than 20 years. It appears that the mercury leaked into ground water following the fire. Residents in the area fear for their lives. Resident Bonginkosi Phungula says livestock have been affected. “My livestock get sick now and again. They sometimes fail to stand. In one incident, I slaughtered cattle after it lost its energy. We found its lungs with white substance that I did not know.” The community say the warning by the municipality was not communicated to people living next to the river. Chairperson of the Indunakazi Cooperative William Majozi says they were not informed about the mercury in the water. “We did not get any correspondence or information that the water in this river is dangerous, hence we still use this water for our plants. We don’t know what we will do now.” Authorities say the company will be taken to task. Bobby Peek from Groundwork says mercury is a persistent pollutant. “So mercury is a type of persistent pollute in the environment; it doesn’t go, doesn’t disappear. It can’t be distorted so it’s for ever in the environment and the fish the animals, the aquatic life and other life will take mercury.” Thor Chemicals, that previously occupied the site, became notorious in the late 1980s and early 1990s after workers were found to have been affected by toxic mercury waste. A river was polluted downstream and four workers died. A settlement was reached. R12 million was paid to 38 workers and other family members. The plant was shut down and the company ordered to pay for the clean-up. Metallica Chemicals has declined to comment. WATCH VIDEO BELOW: 