The African National Congress (ANC) has urged the people of Zimbabwe to honour the legacy of the late former President Robert Mugabe by developing their country. The governing party has expressed condolences over the passing of Mugabe who it has described as a leader and revolutionary dedicated to serving his people. Mugabe passed away in the early hours of Friday morning in a hospital in Singapore aged 95. ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe says that those in Zimbabwe should celebrate and preserve Mugabe’s legacy. “What is important is that those that remain out in Zimbabwe and, as part of celebrating and preserving the legacy of President Mugabe; make sure that there is a strong culture of human rights they contribute and facilitate development in that country. They foster efforts to drive national unity, social justice and everything else to make sure that a country that has a lot of agricultural and mineral reserves becomes and important player in the economy of our continent.” The leader of the Freedom Front Plus, Pieter Groenewald, says Mugabe’s reign had disastrous economic consequences for Zimbabwe despite being a freedom fighter. Groenewald says Mugabe’s policies are to blame for Zimbabwe’s current problems. “The land grab was a big mistake for the future of Zim in such a manner that we even have famine in Zim. It’s an example for other African countries and SA that it is not the way to govern a country.” DA leader, Mmusi Maimane, says one cannot deny Mugabe’s contribution to the liberation of the people of Zimbabwe, but he failed to build a capable state. “I think one cannot deny the role that President Mugabe played in the contribution to the liberation of the people of Zimbabwe. And yet equally so, it then became absolutely crucial that we recognise that President Mugabe failed to build a capable state, failed to continue to project of liberation and, unlike President Mandela, failed to step down and uphold democracy. So in such a time as this, we reflect on both because it is important for the people of Africa to know that when we look at liberators, we also need to know that there must be life beyond liberators; we must liberate ourselves from liberators.”  DA spokesperson, Solly Malatsi, says Mugabe leaves behind a conflicting legacy. “He will be remembered for his conflicting legacy; for being a one-time liberator to independence and ultimately becoming an oppressor of the very same democratic ideals that he fought for.” The Economic Freedom Fighters described Mugabe in a statement as one of the liberation fighters that ensured the independence and self-sufficiency of Zimbabwe and its people.
“He led this struggle with distinction and selflessness.”  UDM leader, Bantu Holomisa, says Mugabe’s role in liberating the people of Zimbabwe is well-documented. “Robert Mugabe’s role in liberating the people of Zimbabwe is well-documented. In doing so, he had to give in like we have done here when we were negotiating. He was promised that he would be given money, for instance, to deal with the issue of land by Britain, but it would appear that it never came true. But on the other hand, the people of Zimbabwe were pressurising the government for him to do something, but he never endeared himself to the western world because they saw him to be asking too many questions. Yes it is true; he was a hero to many Zimbabweans, but he was a villain to others.”  WATCH RELATED VIDEO BELOW:  LISTEN TO SA FM’S THE TALKING POINT INTERVIEW WITH  ZANU-PF SECRETARY FOR SECURITY,LOVEMORE MATUKE. <a href="https://iono.fm/e/741819">Content hosted by iono.fm</a> 