More than 110 people have been arrested nationwide during the violent protests that had engulfed the country since Sunday. There have also been unconfirmed reports of one fatality. The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NatJOINTS) has strongly condemned the acts of violence. In Gauteng, more than 90 people were arrested after the looting of shops and damaging to property in and around Johannesburg. It says at least 20 people have been arrested in connection with the attacks on trucks, truck drivers and the blocking of roads in the harbour of Richards Bay and other areas in KwaZulu-Natal. NatJOINTS says it has put additional measures in place to ensure that such acts are not repeated. It has also called for maximum sanction to be imposed on those found guilty in a court of law. The ANC has dismissed as criminal acts, protests and looting in the Johannesburg CBD that started in the early hours of Sunday morning. Several shops belonging to foreign nationals and local ones were also looted on Monday. The ANC has strongly condemned the violence that has engulfed the City. ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule has implored police to take action. The Africa Diaspora Forum says it’s trying to come up with safety measures for foreign nationals. The organisation has accused the police and government of being ignorant when it comes to protecting the rights of foreign nationals. Africa Diaspora Forum Chairperson, Vusimuzi Sibanda, says, “We are seeing an onslaught on the migrants. There’s no protection as you can see. Maybe they are busy somewhere else. But the only thing we can do now is to try and find our own means of protecting ourselves, that is in the numbers, because if people sit wherever they sit alone they are being attacked and wait until at night and they are getting attacked. So, we are also trying to set up our systems to make sure that we can communicate. We know wherever there’s an attack we can go there and protect the lives and the property of the migrants.” Watch the video below for more on the story:    