President Cyril Ramaphosa says government is working to ensure that African languages are offered at all schools in the country.   He was addressing Heritage Day celebrations in Upington, in the Northern Cape. South Africa is celebrating local literary classics and indigenous languages this public holiday – and emphasizing the importance of the nation being united in its diversity. President Ramaphosa says government is working to offer bursaries to those at tertiary level who want to major in African languages.   “We are actively working to develop lexicography and terminology development units and offer bursary schemes to students who want to major in a number of African languages. We are actively working to make sure that African languages are offered in all our schools. We want all our 23 000 schools to offer an African language. Our Parliament has also been asked to elevate sign language to the status of the official language,” explains the President. President Ramaphosa has also promised to give support to the /Nuu language school in Upington.   He made the comments while speaking at the opening of the Sandile Present Community Library and reading session in the area. During an interaction with the president, Khomani San leader, Ouma Katriena Esau told Ramaphosa that her people have often been promised government help with no outcome. “You are the President, you are the head and I am asking you to please help me. I have two people who I would like to be teachers here. We run this school with my pension. Now the children need stationery and books.” Meanwhile, DA leader Mmusi Maimane has called on all South Africans, black and white to unite for the betterment of the country, across all spheres including the economy.   He was in Soweto earlier today as part of the Heritage day celebrations, accompanied by the party’s provincial leadership of Gauteng. Maimane told hundreds of his party supporters, outside the Mandela National Museum at Vilakazi Street in Orlando West – that for South Africa to celebrate Heritage Day, all citizens must enjoy the fruits of a prosperous economy. “Let’s build an economy that [will] ensure that our citizens can prosper together and build one South Africa. How do you hand over a heritage o sena mmereko [without a job]. We are here to say today, we must reform our politics to also reform our economy so that more people are included. Then we can talk of a prosperous heritage for future South Africans,” explains Maimane. He says part of growing the country is to ensure that South Africans own property. “We must ensure when we build an economy that works, that we [should] make sure everybody owns property. You know, part of the reason why section 25 was put in the Constitution was because prior [to] 1994 black people were not able to own property,” he adds.    