Britain’s Prince Harry has added his voice to calls for South Africans to take a stand against Gender-Based Violence. The Prince was speaking at Nyanga in Cape Town at the start of his and Megan Markle’s tour of Southern Africa. The Royal pair on Monday embarked on the visit as part of their 10-day official African tour. Prince Harry says they are privileged to listen and learn about the issues affecting communities in Nyanga. “Touching on what your president said last week, no man is born to cause harm to women, this is learnt behaviour and a cycle that needs to be broken. So now it’s about redefining masculinity, it’s about creating your own footprints for your children to be following so that you can make a positive change for the future. To me the real testimony of your strength isn’t physical, your strength, is in your spirit, which for me it means honouring and protecting my wife and being a positive role model to my son.” The pair from the British Royal Family have been visiting a human rights organisation in Nyanga, that also operate in Zambia and Zimbabwe.  The Justice Desk works primarily in township areas and vulnerable communities. The NGO is supported by the Queen’s Commonwealth. Harry, as well as Markle, are both president and vice president of the trust. The Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle has thanked South Africans for the warm welcome the couple received. The Duchess says she’s honoured, ” While I’m here with my husband, as a member of the royal family, I want you to know that for me, I’m here with you as a mother, as a wife, as a woman, as a woman of colour, and as your sister. I’m here with and for you and I thank you so much from my husband and me for the spirit of ubuntu.” The royals will attend a human rights workshop with children and also witness a self-defence class for girls and young women. Social Media reacts to #RoyalVisitSouthAfrica<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> 