Penguin Random House says it will not buckle under political pressure following the publication of Pieter-Louis Myburgh’s new book, Gangster State. The book, described as an explosive investigative exposé, looks into the alleged dealings of ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule from the 1980’s to his present position within the party. The publisher says, despite threats by Magashule to pursue legal action over its contents, the company stands by the book and its author. “In spite of Cyril Ramaphosa’s ‘New Dawn’ there are powerful forces in the ruling party that risk losing everything if corruption and State Capture finally do come to an end. At the centre of the old guard’s fight-back efforts is Ace Magashule – a man viewed by some as South Africa’s most dangerous politician.” – This is how the book Gangster State is described by the publishing house. The book is an exploration of Magashule’s relationship with the notorious Gupta family and other tender moguls, government projects costing billions that enriched his friends and family; and reveals how he was about to be arrested by the Scorpions before their disbandment in the late 2000s. Penguin Random House says it notes in the ANC’s press statement and that there has been no attempt to substantively refute the allegations. Gangster State is further described as an unflinching examination of the ANC’s top leadership in the post Jacob Zuma era and makes the argument that, when it comes to the forces of capture, South Africa is still far from safe.  ANC defends Magashule The ANC has defended Magashule who is considering taking legal action against Myburg. The meeting also took place after Magashule was accused of tampering with the ANC candidates’ lists, a charge which he has denied. ANC national spokesperson, Pule Mabe, says “When the statement is issued which it deals with the outcomes of the NEC, the secretary-general will be able to reflect on what becomes the way forward.” The publisher says despite threats by Magashule to pursue legal action over its contents, the company stands by the book and its author. Penguin Random House CEO, Steve Connolly explains, “Penguin Random House is a global publisher. It’s a biggest trade publisher in the world and it certainly does not have any axe to grind with any political party in South Africa. What it wants it’s to publish books that people are interested in reading. The reason we responded to their press release is that we wanted to make it very clear that we stand by this book and we stand by Peter Louis Myburgh as an outstanding author.” 