While many South Africans celebrated Freedom Day, one Mpumalanga man says this day means nothing to him. Bongumusa Mntambo has been unemployed for the past seven years after the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) failed to renew his contract, with others, in 2013 this even after the court ruled in their favour. They worked as fire-fighters at the Waterkloof Air Force Base in Pretoria. Mntambo says they’ve been denied justice as he and other fire-fighters were dismissed by the SANDF. In 2014 the North Gauteng High Court ordered the SANDF to re-instate them, however SANDF ignored the court ruling and a warrant of arrest for senior managers was issued as they were in content of court, they then appealed. Mntambo says he now has regrets. “I still love the defence force. I’m a soldier. I was trained but at some point when all this thing happened, I wished I had not joined the SANDF. They treated me unfairly.” The case has dragged on from 2013 and recently the Supreme Court of Appeal upheld the High court ruling but that too cut off their hopes of returning to work as the SANDF lodged another application. “I was really happy thinking that the case is really over, I am going back to work. But it didn’t happen like that. It is really breaking me.” Bongumusa and his colleagues received another blow. Advocate Moddima Mannya explains. “What appears from the Supreme Court of Appeal is that the minister and SANDF applied for condonation which might be for their late filling of the application for special leave to appeal or for any other none compliance. The SCA dismissed that. It means they haven’t made out a case. The second issue is that the SCA has said the requirements for special leave to appeal have not been met” Mannya says this could be one of those cases where the state is delaying the inevitable while using tax payer’s money. “The implication of course is that the rights of these continue to be violated. The Constitutional Court has said repeatedly that the right to work forms an integral part of the right to human dignity” The South African Defence Force was given the right to reply on Friday. On Saturday they promised to respond but phone calls and text messages were later not responded to.