Traffic volumes have started to increase on the N1 between Polokwane and Pretoria as holidaymakers and Zion Christian Church (ZCC) pilgrims have started returning to various destinations after spending the Easter weekend in Limpopo. There is, however, traffic congestion on the R71 road as thousands of vehicles are moving out from Moria where Saint Engenas and ZCC pilgrims gathered. Motorists say they are delighted that traffic is flowing on the N1. Motorists advised to exercise caution Meanwhile, Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department’s Wayne Minnaar has advised motorists to exercise caution on the roads. Monday marks the end of the Easter period and traffic is expected on roads leading in and out of Gauteng as residents make their way back home. JMPD officers are expected on all main roads and highways. Minnaar says motorists should obey the rules of the road. “As motorists make their way to Gauteng, they are encouraged to be extra cautious and vigilant. They should look out for pedestrians, they should obey the speed limit and they should not overtake when it’s not safe and particularly not over solid white lines.  Many officers are on duty particularly the N1 from Limpopo, the N3 from the KZN, the N4 from Mpumalanga and also the N12 which will be heavy with traffic from the North West,” says Minnaar. In the Western Cape, 42 people have been arrested at various roadblocks since the start of the Easter weekend. Traffic Chief, Kenny Africa, says more than half of the arrests are for drunk driving.  “We arrested 34 drunken drivers. We also arrested three drivers for being in possession of false documentation. “In Worcester, we arrested a driver for overloading his goods vehicle. We arrested one person who failed to give his information to a traffic officer and also for being in possession of tik. Then, two reckless and negligent drivers were arrested. We also arrested one driver in Vredenberg who failed to comply with the instructions of a traffic officer.” Click below for more on the story: 