The African National Congress (ANC) has conveyed its condolences to the families affected by the floods across the country, the worst hit being KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape. So far 67 people have died in KwaZulu-Natal and six in the Eastern Cape due to the floods. Scores have been displaced. ANC Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte has commended the work done by the emergency services thus far. Duarte has urged citizens to support and assist the affected communities. “We hope that those who are injured and have lost property will find their feet very soon and heal speedily. We call on all South Africans in the vicinity to extend their hands and provide volunteer services to assist any family in need with whatever we might have to share. This is a difficult time for all of us, it is a time that was not planned for, it is unprecedented and when an emergency arises our task as citizens is to support each other.”  Residents to take precautions Meanwhile, Eastern Cape Premier’ Spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo has cautioned residents to take precautions and not allow children to play in dams, especially in areas affected by floods. Kupelo says although the weather is clearing, residents need to be cautious.  “We therefore urge members of the community, especially in the villages to take extra precautions, look after children and prevent children from going to the dams and rivers because the water is still very strong. So it is not advisable for anyone, even adults they must not attempt to because now the skies have cleared, they should not attempt to cross the river because the water is still very strong.”  In the Free State, police have appealed to the residents of Bronville in Welkom in the Free State to assist with the identification of the body that was retrieved on a flooded road on Wednesday. The floods followed heavy rainfall in the area. “They retrieved the body of a man who is aged 40 years old. We have opened an inquest but currently we don’t have the address of the deceased. So we are appealing to the community to assist with the identification of the body so that we can continue with the investigation,” says Police spokesperson, Malebo Khosana. 