Public Service and Administration Minister Ayanda Dlodlo says Mayeke Higher Primary School in Xikundu outside Malamulele in Limpopo has historic value to the family of the late Minister Collins Chabane. Minister Dlodlo was opening a computer laboratory at the school outside Malamulele. The school was adopted by the late minister in 2014. Chabane died in a car crash three years ago. With the enrollment of just over 500 learners from Grade R to 7, the school in Xikundu is a few meters from Chabane’s home. He adopted the school in 2014. It was through his initiative that the school received donation of computers and internet connection from the mobile cell phone company – MTN in 2015. “It is a center that was donated at the happiest of the late Minister Collins Chabane to this school where he was a student at primary school. His father at some point was a principal of this school. Today was just an official opening and it has a historic value to his family as well so every child from the Chabane household has in some way had a relationship with the school, either as a student or as a worker in the school. So that is the history that I’m talking about.” The learners at the school have expressed happiness about the computer laboratory. The Ettian Chabane multi-media centre has 22 computers. The learners say it will improve learning and teaching. MEC for Education in the province, Ishmael Kgetjepe, says schools must use funds for norms and standard to look after their facilities, including the computer lab. “We are giving the schools 100% of norms and standard. That is the money that they should be able to get from the department. This is a no-fee school. So, we give it money from government to look after itself. Part of things it should (do) is to then budget for this facility.” Meanwhile, MEC for Health Phophi Ramathuba has also launched the school health programme at Mayeke Higher Primary school. “We have our speech and audiologists who will be able to assess the hearing of the learners. We’ll also be bringing our optometrists to check the eyesight of the learners. We want to teach them while they are still young about a healthy lifestyle. This is not a very big school, which I believe, by the end of this year, every learner should be assessed and every learner should have a certificate.” Learners rendered an item to honour the late Minister Chabane.