Jobs and economic opportunities have been under the spotlight at the Walk and Economic Opportunities Expo in the Eastern Cape. It is an annual event that brings together various government departments and the private sector to expose young people to a wide array of academic career and business opportunities. Hundreds of young people hungry for economic and career opportunities got to explore what is on offer. Cabinet ministers were on hand to punt the need for more artisans. The Eastern Cape has the highest unemployment rate in the country. It is no surprise therefore that high school learners lined up to access information on career paths. “I want to study teaching, reason being teachers in South Africa are not recognized. But they play a big role. For example, all the people that are here are here because of teachers,” says Malusi Mbane a learner. “The reason I want to be a chartered accountant is because I like dealing with money a lot. I know in South Africa there are many people who are breaking the law. So I just want to put my input so that I can see if there are those people who will continue breaking the law,” says Athabile Nobatha another learner. Talk of the Fourth Industrial Revolution also featured. There are plans to introduce technology that could benefit social grant holders. “I have intentions as the leader of the Fourth Industrial Revolution to make sure that the post office is digitized. If it’s digitized this means we are going to introduce technology to the beneficiaries. I therefore need those old women and men to know how to use technology. The cyber labs are there to assist to bring everyone to the digital space. And the great thing is that you can translate whatever content to your local language,” says Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, Minister of Communications. Plans are also in place to expand studies in the agriculture field. “We’re very close to finalising talks with the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries about higher education becoming a very strong collaborator in agricultural colleges and using the new post education framework in order to make the colleges part of the higher education and tertiary institutions,” says Naledi Pandor. The aim of this expo is to help young people to be better informed so that they can make the right career choices. WATCH RELATED VIDEO BELOW: 