Jiba intends to take the Mokgoro Enquiry Report on judicial review. Jiba has described the Mokgoro Enquiry findings and the President’s subsequent decision to fire her as as “grossly unfair”. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s decision to sack Adv Nomgcobo Jiba and Adv Lawrence Mrwebi have been influenced by the Mokgoro Commission’s findings. Among the key elements for Ramaphosa’s decision is their dishonesty. The President’s spokesperson, Khusela Diko, says the President will soon inform parliament about his decision. “The President has now written informing Adv Jiba and Mrwebi of his decision. The NPA Act says that from now on the President must inform parliament of his removal of these two senior advocates of removing them from the NPA. Parliament would then take a decision whether they feel that his decision is to restore the advocates to the position…” Jiba says she will present her case to parliament when it considers the President’s decision to remove her. Jiba says she stands by her entire testimony at the Mokgoro Enquiry. ‘It’s not over yet for Jiba, Mrwebi’ Constitutional Law expert, Phephelaphi Dube, says Parliament will now decide whether to ratify President Cyril Ramaphosa’s decision to axe suspended senior  National Prosecuting Authority (NPA ) advocates, Nomgcobo Jiba and Lawrence Mrwebi. Ramaphosa fired the duo after a report by retired Constitutional Court Justice Yvonne Mokgoro, established that they were unfit to hold office in the NPA. The report details that the two had compromised integrity, lack leadership skills and have poor ethical standards. “It’s not yet final in terms of the NPA Act. Parliament has to ratify the president’s decision, but it means that Parliament can choose to disregard the president’s findings and if that is the case, they will be reinstated to their positions. “But bear in mind, the partisan nature of our Parliament and the majority of the members are drawn to the ranks of the governing party. It is highly unlikely they are going to take a different stance from the head of their party,” Dube argues. Watch video below for more on the story:  