Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte says the party will not be dictated to by media as to who should be on its national and provincial lists. She was speaking to the journalists after the ANC’s Special NEC meeting in Johannesburg earlier Tuesday afternoon. However, things took an ugly turn when she accused the eNCA and its journalists of being bias against the party. Duarte has labelled eNCA journalist Samkele Maseko “the worst bully I’ve ever come across”, adding that  he was “arrogantly disposed” and accuses him of believing he is “the lord of media”. The ANC has since released a statement saying Maseko engaged in an ‘unacceptable and unprofessional outburst.’ Sanef condemns the incident The South African National Editors Forum’s (Sanef) Kate Skinner has condemned the incident. “Our issue is that journalists need to be able to ask questions and should be able to ask hard questions. What I thought was fair, is the ANC statement afterwards, wanting to discuss this further with the eNCA editorial team,” Skinner explains.  At the beginning of the briefing, the DSG explained that she would only read the media statement, but if there are any questions outside the statement, these should be referred to the ANC Acting National Spokesperson. The DSG has requested a meeting with the editorial team of eNCA and the Sanef. Duarte reiterates her commitment to freedom of the media and editorial independence which has been championed by the ANC for many years.  Maseko says it’s not clear why he was attacked. “I do recall that when we first entered the briefing room, she did say she won’t be taking any attacking questions from eNCA and myself on this particular issue surrounding the Secretary General of the ANC, Ace Magashule; and that she will not be working or serving the eNCA as my camera colleague was late.  It all stem from there. Then she went on to attack my employers, saying we are running a campaign to get rid of Malusi Gigaba, Bathabile Dlamini and Nomvula Mokonyane from the ANC list to the National Assembly.”