Mop-up operations are under way in the Eastern Cape following heavy flooding that claimed three lives and resulted in hundreds of people losing their homes. Low lying areas in the Eastern Pondoland are some of the areas that have been hardest hit. The heavy rain was widespread. Rural villages in Eastern Pondoland are some of the worst affected. In Lusikisiki, subsistence farmers are struggling as their livestock and crops are at risk. Lusikisiki farmer, Andile Duba says, “It affected us badly because now our  livestock is outside and there’s no shelter where it can hide. Yesterday we lost two sheep and now the other ones are still weak; So we don’t know how it is going to affect us more and more.” In Port St Johns 300 people have been displaced. Port St Johns Mayor Nomvuzo Mlombile-Cinco says, “One of the problems with Green Farm, you will found that they built their houses on top of the old pipes. We are looking forward to making sure that we change that. You’ll remember that because of the long strike that has taken place at Port St Johns, about 8 months. That has caused some people who were taken out of that area to go back and build again.” President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to visit the area later this week to assess the damage.  Ntabankulu villagers cut off from outside world In Ntabankulu villagers from Mfundisweni have been cut off for three days. Schools have been affected. Learners from this village are the worst affected as they were unable to reopen school after the Easter holiday. Three schools in the area have been closed until things return to normality. Villagers from Phepheni, outside Ntabankulu in the Eastern Cape, have been cut off from the outside world due to the overflowing Mzintlava River. They say this is the situation during heavy rains since the low level bridge was built in the 1940s. Two primary schools, a high school and a clinic have been affected. Ntembiso Goba, who was born in the village, says he lost his grandfather on the bridge. “We’ve been trying to get assistance from the ministers and all the stakeholders, Ntabankulu and OR Tambo. We’ve been free for 24 years now, but we are still struggling in our locations. At the same time, they need us to vote although they don’t want to do the right thing for us. If this can happen on the 8th of next month, who can go and vote.”  Meanwhile, 51 people have been killed in KwaZulu-Natal after heavy rains caused flooding and mudslides. Rescue workers are digging through collapsed homes and other buildings in coastal areas of the province. President Cyril Ramaphosa, who has been visiting the affected areas in KwaZulu-Natal, says government departments will assist families that have been left destitute. Last week, 13 people were killed during an Easter service in KwaZulu-Natal part of the wall of a church collapsed after days of heavy rains and strong winds.   