The South African Weather Service has warned that more severe thunderstorms and heavy downpours are expected on Monday afternoon as chilly conditions continue throughout the country. Motorists are advised to be vigilant as they travel home from their Easter Weekend holidays amid fog patches, heavy rainfall and traffic congestion. South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) Weather Forecaster, Mpho Rasimphi says heavy rainfall is expected over the Free State interior, the coastal area of KwaZulu-Natal and East London. She warns that rainfall could cause localised flooding and therefore people are urged to be on the lookout. Rasimphi further issues warning of severe thunderstorm over the interior of the North West, extending to the western part of the Northern Cape. She points to a possibility of a heavy downfalls and severe thunderstorm warnings extending towards the interior and extending to the Western Cape.  Hundreds evacuated in Port St Johns Hundreds of residents from Port St Johns in the Eastern Cape have been evacuated following flooding caused by heavy rains that lashed the coastal town. Floods victims say their goods have been damaged as their homes are swamped in water. Heavy down pour lashing the Wild Coast since the weekend forcing residents out of their homes. One resident says, “The water is coming through the wall, so I had to leave my house. I am scared it might fall on me. I am going to find a place at my relatives place.” The municipality says local businesses have provided alternative shelter. Municipality Speaker, Ayanda Gantsho says, “We’re evacuating the people from the green farm, because it is risky for them to remain in their houses. But we got help from local business.”  Strong gale force winds expected in Cape Town Meanwhile, the Cape Town Weather Office says strong gale force winds in the Mother City are expected to abate by tomorrow. Senior weather forecaster, Kate Turner, says wind speeds of up 60 kilometres per hour have been recorded in some parts of the metro. She says moderate temperatures in the mid-twenties have also been forecast for the next few days. “Over the Cape Metropole and over the Cape surrounding areas, very very windy still, reaching about 50-60 kilometres an hour. But by Wednesday things will start to drop down and look a lot better. The temperature tomorrow… It is quite a mild week that’s lying ahead of us. Our temperatures remaining in the mid-twenties and that would be from tomorrow right through to the end of the week as well, those temperatures in our mid-twenties.” 