Axed National Prosecution Authority (NPA) Deputy Head, Nomgcobo Jiba says the decision by President Cyril Ramaphosa to fire her is wrong and amounts to abuse of executive powers. Jiba and senior NPA advocate Lawrence Mrwebi were fired following the recommendations by an enquiry into their fitness to hold office. The report details that the two had compromised integrity, lacked leadership skills and had poor ethical standards. In a media statement, Jiba remains defiant saying she does not accept the findings of the report by retired constitutional Court Justice Yvonne Mokgoro. The Advocate says she will be going to Parliament to defend herself where her removal will be debated. She says she stands by her evidence given before the Commission and hopes Parliament will see that the decision to remove her has been grossly unfair. Jiba argues that the findings contain gross errors of judgement that a review application to the High Court will demonstrate. The axed former NPA senior advocate insists she will not be stripped of her rights to serve the country by what she claims is “executive stealth”. Meanwhile, advocate Mrwebi has declined to comment until parliament deals with the matter. Read Jiba’s Statement below:  NDPP reacts to the dismissal of Advocates Jiba and Mrwebi The NDPP says the President’s decision to dismiss Advocates Jiba and Mrwebi has ended months of uncertainty in the NPA. “It has unburdened the NPA from certain issues that have weighed negatively on the organisation’s credibility and reputation,” reads a statement issued on Friday. It adds that “It sets a new path for the NPA.” “As the Mokgoro report reminds us, it is imperative that the NPA performs its critical role independently, in accordance with the law and the spirit of the Constitution. Anything less weakens the rule of law, and ultimately undermines the social contract that binds South Africans together. The Report decisively highlights the guiding principles that all prosecutors – regardless of rank or title – are expected to uphold,” notes the NDPP.  