Mpumalanga’s uMkhonto we Sizwe (MK) council has reiterated its call for the disbandment of the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC). The council claims there is a leadership crisis and has called on national to intervene. It alleges that the present situation places the African National Congress (ANC) in a precarious position ahead of the National Elections scheduled for May. Seeking ways to save the provincial ANC, MK members from various regions identify corruption and gate-keeping as some of the challenges facing the party. MK council member, Jerry Segage says:”We are confronted with questions that we know that we cannot provide answers for. We never converged under one roof and answered those questions.  For instance the issue of corruption, gate keeping, elevation of people who are not equal to the task, our role for instance for the MK council side we are not here for positions.” MK council spokesperson, Jaques Modipane says:”This corruption in Mpumalanga needs to be brought to the attention of the nation. Number two it is happening because they have cloned and compromised the ANC.” The ANC in Mpumalanga is calling on members to use internal structures to discuss their grievances. The party’s Acting Secretary Lindiwe Ntshalintshali is concerned about the conduct of the MK Council, she denies claims of a leadership crisis in the province. “The PEC will not be disbanded because it is in office legitimately and its term is nearing end. It is operating within the framework of the constitution of the ANC. They are just disgruntled and their behaviour needs attention from the party, something that we will do because people of their calibre should not be doing this.” The council has committed to defend the so-called National Democratic Revolution in the province. It also took a swipe at the media for allegedly receiving a bribe to turn a blind eye to corruption. Resolutions taken in this forum will be submitted to the party’s national leadership. Related video click below: 