Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has told the 2018 top matric achievers that South Africa is looking to them to help move the country forward. She was addressing students who obtained top marks at a Top Achievers Breakfast in Midrand, Johannesburg. The Independent Examination Board (IEB) has already announced that the class of 2018 has scored a 98.9% pass rate. This is a 0,2 % increase from 2017.  Motshekga has advised the country’s top achievers to continue to be committed to their studies as they enter the higher education sector. She says young people must keep the fourth industrial revolution in mind when studying. “We are looking forward to you taking us to the fourth industrial revolution. We are told it is coming and we shouldn’t find ourselves ill-prepared. You have the brains, the ability, the commitment and dedication. So you are the ones that will take our country out of poverty. You are going to come with solutions.” Motshekga says these learners are an inspiration to their peers. “You are the ones that will take our country out of poverty, is that not so? Under development and terrified by the fourth industrial revolution, you are here and you are going to come with solutions. That is what we are expecting of you. You are the best of the best, who else can do it better than you? “So we are really looking forward to that. As you move to the next phase of your life, we want you to remember that you have indeed proven that you have the capacity to fly higher than high because that is what brought you here.” Some of the top learners have advised those who’ll be doing matric this year to remain focused and study hard. Motshekga will officially announce the 2018 matric exam results on Thursday evening. [Watch] Director General for Basic Education, Mathanzima Hubert Mweli, as he delivers a technical briefing of how the class of 2018 performed.  Watch video below:  The 2018 Matric Results will be available through the SABC Education Matric Results service from midnight. To register SMS your ID number and exam number to 35658 or Dial *120*35658#