The District Six Working Commitee has once again met with current and future land claimants ahead of a second High Court appearance in February. In 2018, the Cape Town High Court ruled that the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform should speed up the restitution process and formulate a plan within three months. Last year the Cape Town High Court heard that more than 20 years since the start of the restitution process more than one thousand District Six claimants are yet to receive their houses. The District Six Working Committee convened a public meeting and has met with current and future claimants as their fight for restitution continues. The committee’s Shahied Ajam says the number of claimants continues to grow with some not always opting to take a house as restitution. “A lot of them will come back and a lot will also benefit economically and financially. There are those who will opt for monetary compensation. We know that government stands at 130 000. How they calculate that, we don’t know. We know the people are not going to accept that we would rather argue if one has a lot restoring their dignity, start from a million down and we stop and maybe R5 600 000 per family. Those are for the ones who did not wish to return to District 6,” says Ajam. Some claimants say it’s important that people make informed decisions that will not only be to their benefit themselves but their families as well. Arona Jansen says she was born in District Six and that is where she wants to be. “We need to think very clearly if we are educated people and we know what money is all about, and the value of money. Then you will tell yourself, I want the property. We have all fought for the property, each and everyone that is coming to these meetings has been fighting. Mentally, yes people have been traumatised for many, many years and would love this to happen and become a reality especially for our elderly people,” says Jansen. One of the oldest claimaint’s, 96-year old Sherifa Khan was moved out of District Six by force and holds fond memories of the area. She lives in hope she will one day return. “If I get place I will move in because I am lonely, then I will go,” says Khan. Some land claims have been lodged as far back as 1998 with some claimants still awaiting restitution. Currently, development is underway in the area with the District Six Working Committee saying government has three years to complete the 42 hectare development. Watch a related video below: 