African National Congress Head of Elections in the Western Cape Ebrahim Rasool has described Freedom Front-Plus Premier Candidate Peter Marais‘ proposed secession of the Western Cape as Trumpism. However, Democratic Alliance Provincial Leader Bonginkosi Madikizela describes it as a mad idea. Marais has defended his position saying minority groups with one common interest have the right to make their choices. Marais says if he were to win the upcoming provincial election in the Western Cape he will call for a referendum to allow all the people of the province to decide whether they still want to be part of rest of South Africa. Marais alleges that a continuous desire to be part of South Africa would be tantamount to enjoying to be part of ANC corruption. The ANC’s Ebrahim Rasool has rejects Marais plans. “Our job is how do we unite those who feel marginalised like strangers like the black African community. Those who feel gatvol like the Coloured African community in the Western Cape and the only people smiling are those who live in the leafy suburbs. I think we have a fundamental  task of uniting all the people and making them feel at home. Not  making stories about secession, creating borders. That’s Trumpism. It’s not working in America to build a wall around America. How do you want to build a wall in the Western Cape. This is funny thinking.” The Province is currently being governed by the DA. The party’s Provincial Leader Bonginkosi Madikizela brushed off Marais’ idea. “People are entitled to their opinion but that’s a mad idea. Western Cape is part of South Africa and we as the DA are advocating fro a unitary state. We are a liberal party that believes in federalism and of course we believe that provinces must have certain powers. But I don’t agree with Peter Marais. We have come a long way as a country. We are coming from a history of segregation, of Apartheid and therefore we can’t go back there. And therefore as the Democratic Alliance we must make it very very clear that we do not support that idea.” Marais slammed Madikizela and DA’s stance, labeling Madikizela as someone who belongs to the majority group. “And Mandela warned against the tyranny of the majority. He said beware the tyranny of the majority where a group just because they are in a majority, they run rough shot over everyone else. It still happens. I they  decide I am gonna change the name of this town, I’m pulling down this statue, I’m taking  you land without compensation, I’ll ban Afrikaans from schools. That’s tyranny. And Mandela warned against it. So if Madikizela says he is against self-determination he speaking with an ANC tongue. The DA is just a referee in all disputes, They blow the whistle every time somebody is off-side but they can’t change the rules.” In response to the criticism by Rasool, Marais accused him of lacking an understanding of the provisions of the constitution. He says the Western Cape has its own constitutional powers to call for change in the province. “I think Rasool constitutionally falls short. He doesn’t even realise the Western  Cape has its own constitution ratified by the constitutional court. The constitutional court ratified the Western Cape’s own constitution and the only province that has a constitution. And our constitution says that the Premier has the power to call a referendum on any issue and the Western Cape Parliament by  resolution can ask the National Parliament to pass legislation on any issue over which the provinces has no power. It’s written in the constitution and unless Rasool want to argue with the constitution.” 