Pastor Shepherd Bushiri’s lawyer Terrence Baloyi says the Enlightened Christian Gathering (ECG) church leader is cooperating with police regarding the deaths of three people during a stampede. Baloyi was reacting to community protests outside the Tshwane Showgrounds where the church is situated. The stampede occurred as people were seeking cover from a storm. One of the three deceased, the Reverend Sarah Mohlala, was laid to rest on Saturday afternoon. Baloyi says the church has suspended the pastor, as it investigates whether procedure was followed when the tragedy happened. Baloyi says the church also wants to ascertain whether authorities were alerted. “So basically we’re cooperating with the police. If ever they need something from us we open the door for them to investigate thoroughly. Also we have suspended our pastor. We need to get to the bottom of it and have the relevant charges against him if needs be, if there are such charges, that need to be levelled against him. So allow me to say we are busy with such an investigation as to which procedures which were supposed to be followed, whether were followed or not. Then we will get to the bottom of it.” National Civic Organisation, SANCO in Tshwane is expected to meet Baloyi, early next week after a SANCO protest about the stampede deaths. Baloyi says he has agreed to meet the Tshwan’s SANCO leadership on behalf of the church. Baloyi says he’s ready to engage SANCO’s leadership. “One of the SANCO leaders called me requesting that he wants to meet with me which I agreed to. So as things stand I am yet to meet with him. We’ve agreed that yes we can meet there are no problems. So that meeting has been scheduled as of next week. We’re going to meet and discuss as per their request. I don’t know what the agenda is. They didn’t go further, just to say they want to meet the prophet. They also said they want to meet me which I have agreed. No problems there. I will meet them in my capacity on behalf of the church.”

WATCH RELATED VIDEOS BELOW:  