The African National Congress (ANC) NEC says its much-awaited list of the 200 candidates for the National Assembly could only be made public by the end of this month. This follows the party’s list conference that took place over two days in Umhlanga in KwaZulu-Natal. The ANC says it’s too early to tell who will make the party’s list for the National Assembly – as the organisation is still going to vet all those on the list; and that some names might not make it to the final list if they fail the vetting process. In a media briefing in Durban following the National List conference, the ANC said all those nominated are yet to accept or decline the nomination. During a two-day behind closed door meeting, the party trimmed the 800 list to 200 names. But the question is who is on the list – as the party is mum about names that have made it on the list. The party says it would be jumping the gun to say who is on the list as those nominated are still going to be scrutinised. ANC Acting National Spokesperson Zizi Kodwa says that the candidates must enhance the integrity of the party. “You must withstand the scrutiny of the ANC. If somebody looks at the list of the ANC as a voter – it must attract you. The list of the ANC, including the candidates on their personal capacity, must enhance the integrity of the ANC. “The next step is about vetting, and that vetting may include removing names now that includes criminal records, people who have history of fostering divisions, people who have been to the disciplinary processes of the ANC.” The ANC says the final list will have to be approved by the NEC before it’s submitted to the IEC. Asked if the party will make list public, the party’s acting National Spokesperson Dakota Legoete’s response was: it’s the IEC that should publish the list of all parties. Meanwhile, the ANC has defended a planned meeting between President Cyril Ramaphosa and former President Jacob Zuma, saying there is nothing untoward or sinister if the President meets with former Presidents. This after a weekend newspaper speculated that in the meeting Ramaphosa wants to quell Zuma about some of his public comments he recently made including his views on nationalisation of land. Watch Zuma’s views on nationalisation of land:  