President Cyril Ramaphosa says he will be meeting with the Public Protector to explain himself over the Bosasa debacle when he returns to South Africa. Ramaphosa was speaking on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The President says he has nothing to hide. He has maintained that he didn’t lie to Parliament over the R500 000 donation from Bosasa. “I am not even having sleepless moments about this, because my conscience is very clean and clear about the Bosasa debacle. And I will be making this clear when we get home. I have an appointment with the Public Protector following what happened in Parliament. (She) has decided that she will investigate this. I am going to explain the whole issue, give the facts.” On Wednesday, the EFF gave President Ramaphosa until the end of January to call a press conference to clarify his alleged dealings with the controversial company Bosasa. It’s alleged that, leading up to the 54th National Elective Conference of the ANC in Nasrec, Ramaphosa was given a donation of R500 000 for his campaign as the party president. EFF leader Julius Malema says failure by the president to do so, will see February’s State of the Nation Address (SONA) being converted into a “question and answer” session until he tells the nation what happened with him and Bosasa. “This must be a press conference at which journalists will be able to ask open questions. His explanation in Parliament regarding Bosasa has exposed him as having lied, since both his son and Bosasa contradicted him. He must further produce credible evidence that he has indeed paid the alleged R500 000 he wrongfully received for his campaign as ANC president,” Malema said. Meanwhile, Ramaphosa says government continues to endeavour to create policies that will treat all citizens in an equal manner. Speaking with the SABC at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the president said the only way to move forward is to build unity and cohesion amongst South African people. President Ramaphosa announced on Wednesday that foreign investment in South Africa had increased by over 400% in the past year. Interview Below: 