Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane says the controversial picture of Grade R learners at Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke reminds the country of its past. Maimane says the picture which went viral on social media showing the learners segregated by their skin colour in class, is inexcusable. He was speaking during the DA’s public lecture about racism, held in Potchefstroom in the North West, on Friday night. Scores of DA members around Potchefstroom in the North West attended the lecture conducted by Maimane. The DA leader was accompanied by the provincial leadership. He visited the North West, a few weeks after the incident at Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke. Maimane condemned the incident and says what the grade R learners experienced is utterly unacceptable in a democratic South Africa. “We should have sought to protect our kids first before we can transfer any pains towards it because the last thing we need is another generation of South Africans who are re-rationalised. We should have never [taken] actions that will inflame the situation. This action came at the great cost and others might think it is for short term political games but in many instances they cause more damage,” adds Maimane. Although Maimane says his party supports the investigation instituted in the school, he believes the suspended teacher Elana Barkhuizen is being victimised. “Clearly the first and the biggest victims where children in that school, we do not want our kids to be re-racialized in any form. We want to build schools that are diverse and that are inclusive for all South Africans. Secondly, I thought the teacher Mrs Elana Barkhuizen who suffered a kind of swift mob justice so often comes with a story, the school itself suffered tremendously and the children were traumatised,” he explains. Maimane has urged all South Africans to take responsibility in condemning and ending racism. “There are more of us who believe in equality of our society and we believe that actually, the divide between the insiders and outsiders can be broken. There are more of us who believe in towns and cities where the inequality is still displayed, we can work together to build towns that are diverse.” “There are more of [us] who believe that things were tough in the last quarter of the century. We will do better to work together to access opportunities, because we do  not need to open wounds but rather we could build the generation of kids who will grow in South Africa for all.” The DA leader says those who are promoting racism should be dealt with harshly. Click related video below: 