The owner of McLaren Circus says animals used in his performances are not being abused. Circus owner, David McLaren, has accused various groups of animal activists of using social media to spread lies about his business. Angry animal activists protested on the grounds of the circus venue in Plettenberg Bay in the Southern Cape.  The McLaren Circus has been operating for the last 14 years. Their show includes performances by wild animals such as lions, tigers and camels. In recent years, a growing amount of campaigns have started against the use of animals in circuses. McLaren has accused animal activists of having double standards as many sanctuaries in the area make a profit from exhibiting their animals. McLaren says his animals are well taken care of and regularly inspected by veterinarians and the SPCA. “All of our animals are born into captivity. They’re born into the circus environment and all they know is the circus. We raise them all from a very young age. We train all our animals by means of positive reinforcement. The animal rights activists are using social media and Facebook as a means to bully our business. They’re running campaigns spreading lies about our business.” This weekend four protests were organised in Plettenberg Bay. Animal activists say the animals are being forced to do tricks because they are scared of being punished. They are also against them being held in small cages and camps and forced to travel long distances.  Protest organiser, Raven Fon, says South Africa must join other countries and ban the use of wild animals in circuses. “These wild animals and their performances for entertainment and the way they are trained, it’s inhumane. The way that they’re kept is inhumane and we should do better than this. There are over 50 countries in the world that banned animals in circuses. McLaren’s is the last circus in SA to use wild animals, why? it needs to stop.” Plettenberg Bay resident, Jody Vosloo, says she finds nothing wrong with the circus. “It’s my first time and I’m very excited. I’m here to enjoy it.” Another resident, Megan McQuillan, says everyone should have the right to attend the circus without being judged. “I work with horses in a riding school and specialise in children’s lessons. My opinion of the animals in the circus; I believe if you want the best out of the animal, you’ve got to treat them well. So if these animals aren’t treated well, they’re not going to do what you’ve asked them to do. I believe everybody should have their own right to make up their own minds about the circus.” Over the next couple of weeks, McLaren Circus will be travelling to Oudtshoorn, George and Hartenbos. FOR MORE, WATCH VIDEO BELOW: 