The engagement session between Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe and the community of Xolobeni, outside Mbizana in the Eastern Cape, was cut short due to unruly residents who began singing struggle songs. This after one of the residents, who claimed to have been a member from a group opposed to titanium mining on the Wild Coast, supported the proposed mining.  It was evident from the onset that there would be no progress in the meeting, as there were mixed reactions from residents as Minister Mantashe entered the tent. Those who support the mining cheered while those against it booed him. The situation became tense after a former member of the Amadiba Crisis Committee, Simlindile Matsheleza, claimed he left the committee because they were not united and were being used to oppose the mining. The Amadiba Crisis Committee, which is against the mining in the area, says they do not recognise Mantashe’s engagements as the matter is in court. Spokesperson Nonhle Mbuthuma says that they believe in agriculture and it cannot co-exist with mining. “We believe in agriculture and tourism. It’s impossible that mining and agriculture can co-exist as the minister says. We are here to tell him that he must consult the traditional court if he wants land here.” However, others believe this development will create jobs, especially for unemployed youth. “We are saying we want this mining to continue. Students will get learnerships. We are used by white people who come from already developed areas. They come here and divide us, telling us we must oppose the development.” After minister Mantashe had left the tent to address the media, gun shots were heard as police tried to contain the rowdy residents. Although he gave no time-frames, Mantashe said his department would conduct a survey in each and every household in Xholobeni to get their views. “It seems like the crisis committee is divided. We will help them to unite. We are going to set up a team that will conduct a survey here and then send the outcome to court.” In late 2018, the North Gauteng High Court ruled in favour of the residents who opposed the mining. It ordered that full consent be obtained from the community before the granting of mining rights at Xolobeni.   