President Cyril Ramaphosa paid a working visit to Mozambique on Monday at the invitation of his counterpart Filipe Jacinto Nyusi. The visit is aimed at consolidating bilateral, political, economic and social cooperation between the two countries. On bilateral issues, the two Presidents acknowledged the historical and fraternal bonds between the two countries dating back to the period of the liberation struggle against colonialism and apartheid. The two Heads of State expressed satisfaction at the excellent and ever growing bilateral cooperation between the two countries which is managed under the framework of the Bi-National Commission. South Africa and Mozambique have over 70 bilateral Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding covering a wide range of areas including energy, agriculture, arts and culture, defence and security, education and environment, science and technology, immigration, tourism, trade and investment, amongst others. Within the context of maintaining peace and security on the continent, the two Heads of State condemned the attempted coup in the Republic of Gabon. The two Presidents commended the Democratic Republic of Congo for conducting peaceful elections and noted the release of the provisional presidential results and the subsequent lodging of a complaint by one of the candidates. President Cyril Ramaphosa and members of his delegation meeting with his counterpart President Filipe Nyusi of the Republic of Mozambique to discuss bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest. The two Heads of State re-iterated the need for SADC regional economic integration through the implementation of the SADC industrialisation strategy and its action plan, to promote regional value chains and creating industrial capacity. On the continent, the two Heads of State expressed their satisfaction with the growing number of countries on the continent signing the African Continental Free Trade Agreement. In this regard, they urged those fellow African countries who have not signed to do so and ratify this important agreement. The two Presidents re-iterated the need to reform the UN system in particular the UN Security Council to better represent the interests of developing countries. His Excellency, President Nyusi congratulated South Africa for being elected as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council for the next two years. His Excellency, President Ramaphosa extended an invitation to His Excellency, President Nyusi to the next session of the Bi-national commission to be held on a date to be mutually agreed through diplomatic channels. His Excellency, President Ramaphosa extended his gratitude for the warm reception and excellent hospitality extended to him and his delegation during their visit to Mozambique.