Kenyan Inspector-General of Police, Joseph Boinnet, has called for calm in the Kenyan capital Nairobi amid an attack by Al Shabaab on a hotel and office precinct which led to a number of casualties. Special operations troops are among those deployed to the Dusit hotel and office precinct where the surviving militants are apparently still hiding. Boinnet says the area has been cordoned off. “We wish to offer our prayer to those who are affected. We also wish quick recovery to those who are injured. We are engaged in the operation to flash them out. We wish to regret that there could have been some injuries in the attack and we are in the process of confirming the nature and the types of injuries. As you very well know that we have been vigilant throughout the entire festive season wanting to ensure a very good festive period. As part of our enhanced vigilance, we wish at this stage to urge the public to remain calm and to cooperate with instructions given by security forces because we are looking forward to bringing this situation to normalcy within the shortest time possible,” says Boinnet. Kenyan security forces are searching the hotel complex in Nairobi for the surviving Al Shabaab militants who launched an attack at the complex.  Gunmen blasted their way into a luxury hotel and office complex in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, sending workers fleeing for their lives as others cowered under their desks from an attack claimed by Somali militant group al Shabaab. At least three people are reportedly killed and eight wounded. Police have warned the attack may still be ongoing, with the assailants still inside the upmarket Riverside Drive complex. Some office workers climbed out of windows.  Many saying they had to leave colleagues behind, still huddled under their desks. A witness, Paul Mumo says, “We were trying to move out when the first explosion happened. So by the time we reached the last entrance to come out then gunshots were being aimed at us. We could not tell where they were coming from, who is shooting them, so we just retreated and went back to the offices.”  International community condemns Kenyan terrorist attack UN leaders have condemned the brutal terrorist attack in Nairobi, Kenya. They were speaking at the official handover of the Chairmanship of the Group of 77 and China at UN Headquarters in New York. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Chair of G77 & China says, “The attack in Kenya, on behalf of you, we express our condolences to the President of Kenya and to the people of Kenya. We express our solidarity with Kenya and we strongly condemn the terrorist attack that happened today in Nairobi which led to a number of casualties. Together we condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations no matter the origin, no matter the perpetrators. Terrorism is terrorism. We must all condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.” President of the UN General Assembly, Maria Fernanda Espinosa says, “Allow me to begin with words of my most sincere condolences to the Government and the people of Kenya for today’s terrorist attack. I commiserate in particular with the victims of these acts of violence and with their families. I condemn these inexplicable acts of extreme violence in the strongest terms.” United Nations Secretary General, Antonio Gutteres says, “Allow me first of all to join my voice to the expression of total solidarity with the people, the government and the president of Kenya and have total condemnation of the horrible terrorist act that we have just heard about.”  Reactions from Kenyans in SA Kenyans living in South Africa say in recent years, al-Shabaab militants have repeatedly used bombs and guns to attack hotels and busy intersections in the capital city of Nairobi.  