Matriculants are being advised on ways of accessing their results as the Independent Examination Board (IEB) prepares to make them available at midnight on Wednesday and the National Senior Certificate exam on Friday. Results can be accessed from the Basic Education Department’s website or the IEB examinations website IEB Online. Learners can check a number of South Africa’s daily newspapers, online news websites and learning facilities such as schools. The SABC Education Matric Results service  will also allow learners to obtain results by downloading the MatricsMate App from their phone’s App store or sign-up by SMSing their ID and Student number to 35685 or dial *120*35685# to register. For the matriculants anxiously waiting for their results, here are 6 ways to get your results. #MatricResults #Matric2018 #MatricResults2018 @DBE_SA @HigherEduGovZA pic.twitter.com/LIir2B5djF — SA Gov News (@SAgovnews) January 2, 2019  The department’s Spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga says Minister Angie Motshekga is expected to meet the top achievers on Thursday morning before announcing the results at six o’clock in the evening. “Well, tomorrow the minister in the morning will be hosting a breakfast session with the top achievers and their parents to talk to them and find out what it is that they do for them to achieve at this level. And by the way they come from all sorts of schools, rural, city, suburban and all. In the afternoon at 6 right here at the SABC she will be unveiling the pass rate for 2018 as well as the provincial pass rate.”  Learners who wrote the IEB exams can visit the IEB Online website on 3 January 2019 for their results.  CEO of the Independent Examinations Board, Anne Oberholzer explains:   The quality assurance body, Umalusi, has commended the national and provincial Basic Education departments for ensuring that there were no systemic irregularities in the 2018 matric examinations. Umalusi approved the release of the 2018 results in Pretoria last week. Almost 800 000 learners sat for the final school examinations in 2018.