The African National Congress (ANC) says the dispute around the North West list conference is still being discussed, a day before the national list conference takes place in Durban on Friday. All nine provinces have already submitted their lists to the national conference with North West being the only province outstanding. The North West conference organised for early December was postponed following scuffles between members of warring factions in the province. North West is the only province where a provincial list conference hasn’t yet been held. This is despite the planned ANC National List Conference in Durban. Divisions in the ANC in the North West are still clearly evident. This is as the provincial list conference organised for early this month was postponed, following scuffles between members of warring factions in the province. Some members of the party accuse both the PTT and NEC members, who were deployed in the province, of rigging the list and putting their preferred names at the top. Chairperson of the lobbying team in Ngaka Modiri Molema,  Vusimuzi Jobeta says: “It can’t be fair in the ANC that when public representatives are going to be elected we as the ANC members of the North West province we are excluded. We don’t know, we never had a provincial list conference whose mandate are they carrying to the nationalist conference, both the PTT and the NEC deployee lead by comrade Obed Bapela.” The unhappy members have also sent a stern warning to the ANC leadership. “Delegates have mandated us to say there won’t be any election work up until President Cyril Ramaphosa come to the North West Province to come and address and to listen to our challenges.” ANC acting national spokesperson Dakota Legoete explains: “Our committee of appeals nationally is still finalising the last branches of the North West, hopefully when they are done. We will pronounce ourselves on the course of action that we are going to take related to North West. That is why we are also processing all the disputes and appeals to ensure that we have a quality outcome which will be fair to all our members,” Legoete said. The ANC national List Conference will take place in the next two days in Durban. Watch a related video below:  