Former Bosasa COO, Angelo Agrizzi will continue to testify before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Parktown, Johannesburg, on Wednesday. Earlier, Agrizzi said when the Special Investigating Unit approached the facility and management company for a probe, the company’s CEO Gavin Watson took steps to remove potentially damaging information. Agrizzi says once the SIU representatives made mirror images of the companies hard drives and laptops, Watson arranged for people within the company to monitor what the SIU wanted. Meanwhile, ANC National Executive Committee member Lindiwe Zulu has conceded that the negative information that is emerging about some of the senior party members will inevitably affect the image of the governing party. This follows damning evidence implicating some senior party members in wrongdoing at the commission. Agrizzi testified that several ANC NEC members including Nomvula Mokonyane and Parliamentarian Vincent Smith had received kickbacks from the facility and management company. DA lays charges against Mokonyane The Democratic Alliance has laid charges of corruption against Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane for her alleged role in state capture.  The DA’s second deputy federal chair Natasha Mazzone laid the charges in Cape Town on Tuesday. “State capture is a very real thing in our country and it’s caused a great deal of suffering and pain in our country. The fact of the matter is that Nomvula Mokonyane is a sitting minister, she’s a sitting member of the executive and it’s important that we lay these charges today because she is a public representative. As we speak, she represents four-million South Africans in Parliament and we simply cannot allow Members of Parliament and certainly ministers in the executive to be tainted by these very, very serious accusations of corruption.” ANC says won’t ask implicated members to step down But the ANC says it will not ask its National Executive Committee member Nomvula Mokonyane and party Member of Parliament Vincent Smith to step down while the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture is still under way. Acting ANC spokesperson in the Presidency Zizi Kodwa says it would be premature for the party to act against the implicated members. “People who are implicated, are implicated and it’s important to make that distinction because if people are implicated it does not mean we must run what we call in the statement. Firstly, we are avoiding to do a running commentary in each testimony of a witness. A testimony that is not cross-examined, a testimony which is not collaborated.”  Watch video below for more on the story: 