Former Bosasa Chief Operations Officer Angelo Agrizzi has agreed to surrender all his electronic devices to the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. This is to provide the opportunity for the commission’s investigators to obtain more evidence that may be stored on those devices. Agrizzi says all the evidence was too voluminous to record in his affidavit given the time and pressure he was under. He added that he is willing to hand over the devices as he has no intention to withhold any information from the commission. Agrizzi has also admitted to being a racist during his testimony. This emerged after a recording was played at the Commission in which he can be heard making racist remarks. He is heard making racist remarks on a recording made during a meeting with family members of his former boss, Gavin Watson. “I’m embarrassed of myself, I’m ashamed of myself for ever doing that but please just understand the context, no sleep, I was beside myself.. and I’m not making excuses you can even hear me slur.  I haven’t made any excuses about this but once again chair, I am a racist, I agree, judge me on that, it’s fine.” Agrizzi also says Watson and his brothers offered him between R5 million and R10 million a year for five years to silence him on the alleged dirty dealings they had with government. He also conceded that he lied by saying he was never granted an opportunity by the Sunday Times before it published an article about him. Earlier, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, dismissed Ajay Gupta’s application to cross-examine former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel. Lawyers for the Gupta family applied for the right to cross-examine Manuel about his upcoming testimony about former Minister Fikile Mbalula’s suspicions – that Atul Gupta had unlawfully interfered in his appointment as Sports Minister. Justice Zondo had previously ruled that cross examination by the Guptas will be done in South Africa. This is how he ruled on the matter on Monday morning. “I’ve heard the application brought by the Guptas. Hellens, who appeared on his behalf, presented arguments in relation to the basis on which I previously dismissed his application for leave to cross-examine him in the ruling that I made, having listened to him I am of the view that there is no basis for me to grant Ajay Gupta leave to appeal to cross examine because the hurdle which stood in his way in terms of that judgement remains.” Meanwhile, the South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) says it welcomes the decision by the Commisison of Inquiry into State Capture to investigate allegations that journalists were paid by Bosasa.  This follows testimony by Agrizzi on Momday about the facilities management company bribing certain journalists to write positive stories about the company. Agrizzi has now concluded his testimony after nine days on the stand. Click below for more on the story:  