Large numbers of holidaymakers are now returning from their vacations on the country’s highways with growing queues at toll gates. The N1 north highway was recorded at over a thousand vehicles an hour. The N12, N3 and N4 are also experiencing high traffic volumes. Nationally, almost 800 people have died on the country’s roads since the 1st December 2018. Gauteng traffic police spokesperson, Busaphi Nxumalo, says they expect even more traffic. “Our roads are extremely busy today as you know that holidays are over. Our road users are coming back to work and the schools are opening. So this weekend is extremely busy. So we’re expecting more traffic, high traffic volume late in the evening, so yes now at Pumulani Plaza we have got more than 2000 vehicles that are passing though the toll gate and all our roads, more especially the main ones. The freeways.” In Limpopo transport authorities say officers will be closely monitoring congestion which is anticipated at the Kranskop Toll Gate. MEC Makoma Makhurupetje says officers are out in force on the N-one highway and this has led to fewer reports of crashes. “We are here at Kranskop we are working together with SANRAL to start planning for the next two hours because in the next two hours Kranskop will be highly highly congested. We are therefore making a plea to our road users to make sure they continue to exercise patience because by that time everyone will want to pass the traffic will be highly congested. But we want to thank the traffic officers because they have made proper plans you can see how exiting Polokwane is very very well prepared.”  Heavy congestion in Cape Town Bumper to bumper traffic is being experienced on the N2 at Sir Lowry’s Pass as holidaymakers are returning home from coastal areas. Long lines of vehicles are snaking down the pass towards Somerset West. Western Cape Traffic Chief Kenny Africa says heavy congestion is also being experienced on the N1 at the Huguenot tunnel. He says the R44/ Clarence Drive between Rooi Els and Gordon’s Bay will meanwhile remain closed throughout the night due to the extensive vegetation fire that is still burning above Kogelbaai. The fire is now in it’s sixth day. Africa says the road is only likely to reopen Monday morning. Gauteng ready for high volume of traffic The department of community safety in Gauteng says it is working with metro police and other stakeholders in ensuring proper management of high volume of traffic, expected in the province in the next few days. Holidaymakers are returning home, migrant labourers are returning to work and schools are opening in three days time. Highways heading into Gauteng are experiencing heavy traffic volumes. Gauteng traffic police deputy director Busaphi Nxumalo says all efforts are in place to ensure road safety in the province. “Yes we are ready. We’re ready. We’ve got deployments. All our national routes and also our provincial routes. We’ve got our own law enforcement agencies in the province because remember we’re not working alone as department of community safety in Gauteng. We’re working with the three metros, we’ve got Tshwane, Johannesburg and ekurhuleni and smaller municipalities because we’ve got eleven municipalities in the province. So we’re working together to make sure that we kill this disease, the fatalities that are taking our people.” 