Young people in many voting stations around Durban, who will vote for the first time in this year’s national election, say they want to make a meaningful contribution to the country’s democracy. According to the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC), voter registration is low among the youth, with currently only 61% of young people between the ages of 18 and 24 having registered to vote. Many young people say they want to change the perception that the youth are apathetic towards voting. “I’m here to register to vote. I want to break this notion that young people don’t vote. As young people we need change we want jobs so some of us can stop taking drugs. Life is hard,” says one young voter. “Most of us have children and government is giving us grant. So why is it so difficult for us to register so we can vote? We have to bring change. Some even abort their babies because they don’t have jobs. Government have played a big role,” says one of the young people. Some young people around Vukani in Limpopo say they are despondent and have no desire to register to vote. 28 year-old Portia Mulaudzi of Tshino village says corruption in government has discouraged the youth from voting. “No I don’t see any reason to vote. I have matric and I work as a retailer. There is  corruption around South Africa; we are looking for jobs we cant find it. So for me there is no need for to vote. I will not vote even on a single day because I don’t see the need. All the parties say that there will be change – no jobs, but before  they promise us earth but they do nothing.”  Meanwhile, African National Congress (ANC) elections head, Fikile Mbalula, has criticised service delivery protests during weekend’s voter registration. He says protests during voter registration exercise will not help to enhance democracy in South Africa. Several areas were plagued by protests and some voting stations did not open. Mbalula has also defended former President Jacob Zuma’s participation in the voter registration campaign. He says Zuma has not been convicted of any crime adding that he will continue to participate in the ANC campaigns. Sunday is the last day of the IEC’s two-day voter registration exercise. Watch related videos below for more on the story: 