The Presidency has accepted a memorandum of demands from a group of #FeesMustFall activists. The activists walked from Nquthu in KwaZulu-Natal to the Union Buildings in Pretoria calling for the  release of Khaya Cekesehe who was jailed last year for his role in the fees must fall protests. The group is also calling for employment opportunities for young people and an end to poverty. After two weeks on the road, the group finally reached their destination – The Union Buildings in Pretoria. The end of their gruelling their journey was not as anticipated. On arrival, there was no government representative on sight to accept their memorandum. Leader Bonginkosi Khanyile claimed Justice and Correctional Services Minister, Michael Masutha shunned them. “You can see what kind of people were dealing with. We spoke to Masutha that were coming, walking on our bare feet. He has the audacity to tell us that he is on holiday, enjoying holiday, because there’s nothing he’s enjoying public money that he’s spending. There’s an sms that is sent on this phone: I am on holiday…” Cekeshe is serving five years at the Leeuwkop prison for burning a police vehicle in Braamfontein during the fees must fall protests at the Wits University. The group visited him before heading to the capital. “If you are capable of forgiving PW Botha. If you are capable of forgiving De Klerk, Malan, Jon Voster and all of them – those who hanged, killed human beings. So a person accused of burning a van, you say must serve for 8 years; and we must be quite like that… Even if he burnt it, we know he didn’t, even if he did, he must be released because he has done that believing in a cause.” Hours after their arrival at the Union Buildings, a government representative finally arrived to receive their memorandum. The Director General in the Presidency, Cassius Lubisi commended the walkers for their effort describing it as an act of bravery. “And you the new generation of fighters and youth are fighting the struggles of today with courage, and we encourage you to continue the struggles of the youth in the manner that you have done. We salute you for the heroic walk.” The walkers wrapped their long walk with a visit to the family of slain freedom fighter Solomon Mahlangu in Mamelodi.  