Two of the four survivors of the recent Mozambican Portuguese island incident, which claimed four lives, say the only memories they have now is desperation and regret. A group of eight young people went to the island to celebrate the birthday of one their friends. They were swept away by heavy currents killing four while the other four survived. MEC for Social Development Mapule Mokaba-Phukwane visited the families of the survivors and deceased. The MEC and her entourage started by visiting the Rammpudu royal kraal at Tafelkop village before visiting three other families. Chief Rammpuru’s son Vincent is amongst the survivors. Vincent Rammpuru says they went to the island to enjoy themselves and little they know that it will change their lives so tragically. “It really affects us. Like we went to Mozambique to celebrate the birthday of one of our friends. The birthday on the 14th of January. What happened is that we went to the beach and then the next thing, things did not go accordingly. So, the purpose of going that side, it was for us to enjoy ourselves, to be happy and suddenly, things just changed into confusion desperation and regret.” Another survivor, Lesedi Mmotong, a student at the University of Johannesburg, says she is still in a shock. “They arrived yesterday to do a home check, two social workers and I think they did a home circumstances check. Maybe it’s because it was the first session, I didn’t open up. I don’t know what is the procedure. Maybe they will come back and tell me the way forward. We arrived in South Africa on Saturday night.” MEC Mokaba-Phokwane says the survivors will continue receiving counseling. “The counseling will still continue even after the funeral and we have started counseling with all the families. As I have said, what we are going to assist with is counseling. For now, what we will be concentrating on is counseling. We are still going to hear from the family on what they will want us to assist them with, but for now, all we are concentrating on is counseling for now. The funeral; yes, it’s going to be a joint funeral on Sunday.” There will be a joint funeral service for the two ladies at the Groblersdal Rugby Stadium on Sunday. The other two men will be buried in the respective provinces, in Mpumalanga and Free State. WATCH RELATED VIDEO BELOW: 