Registrations at Tshwane University of Technology are running smooth despite the six-week long disruptions at the two campuses in Soshanguve. Registration for senior students has been delayed to allow for examinations currently underway at the at the two Soshanguve campuses. Higher Education and Training Minister Naledi Pandor visited the institution’s Pretoria west campus to monitor late registrations. Beginning of the year is always a busy time for prospective students as they stand in long queues at institutions they wish to further their studies at. In 2019, at TUT, things are different. There are no disruptions and the institution’s personnel deals effectively with the queues. TUT Deputy Vice-Chancellor Professor, Stanley Mukhola, says out of the 15 000 anticipated prospective students at TUT, 6 000 have already been registered. “So, the process is moving fast and very smooth. We were disappointed on Wednesday because IT system was down, but immediately, we phoned the people who are actually our providers and say, look sort this mess out immediately. Thereafter, the system is up. It’s running smooth. You can see for yourself now. If you go to the gate there, you have seen that when they move from the gate, there is a clearing house in a tent. Then there is place where we indicate to them whether you have got status that you are not aware of. We clear you. They will refer you here now for actual registration. Thus far, compared to last year things, are running smooth.” Meanwhile, those on the queue expressed varying views. “I am a first time student. So, I mean it’s the first time being on this line. So I haven’t received help as yet,” says one student. Higher Education and Training Department has measures in place to deal with challenges that may arise during registration period at tertiary institutions in 2019. Minister Pandor visited TUT as part of the ongoing assessment of admissions and registrations at institutions of higher learning. She has also used the opportunity to interact with Student Representatives Councils (SRCs), union members and management of the institutions. Minister Pandor says the department will ensure all qualifying students are placed. “The department’s Central Application Clearing House has been of great help because students then are referred online to institutions and if institutions have places they actually contact the students. So, I think we have measures in place that have begun to ameliorate some of the challenges we faced previously, but it’s early days yet.” Meanwhile, TUT returning students will commence registration at the end of January. This is because some, in Soshanguve campus, are only writing their examinations starting this week.