Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi has told the Commission of Inquiry Into State Capture that former Correctional Services Department Commissioner Linda Mti received a monthly bribe of R65 000 from the facility and management company. Agrizzi is continuing to testify before the commission which is under way in Parktown, Johannesburg. He says Mti received the monthly payments from Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson for consultancy work. Mti was also given a fully-furnished, newly-constructed house at Savannah Hills Estate in Midrand, north of Johannesburg. Agrizzi says the payments continued even after Mti left the department. “Mr Mti got his monthly fees paid over by Gavin Watson.  I saw the grey bag being given to Mr Mti. The whole idea was that there was tender put out for the accommodation of the National Commissioner at that stage. Lukhele bid for it, got it and then just basically moved him into the house. The agreement according to Mti was that rental monies would accumulate and eventually once Mti was out politics and out of government, he would see it as a growing investment and be able to then access the funds.” Constitutional and Criminal Law expert, Professor Pierre de Vos, says the former Bosasa COO, Angelo Agrizzi, cannot not be prosecuted on the basis of the self-incriminating evidence he has given before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. Agrizzi’s damning evidence also implicates various high-ranking politicians. “In terms of the Commission rules, the testimony that you give before the Commission, the specific words that you speak, and when you incriminate yourself, that cannot be used in a court of law against you. So, they cannot use the same testimony and say ‘look what you said before the commission, so you’re guilty,'” says De Vos. Meanwhile, there are more revelations of corruption at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Parktown, Johannesburg, which has continued its public hearings after a lunch break. Agrizzi has explained how Bosasa used front company Sondolo IT, to bag a tender worth R225 million for a TV plan across all correctional facilities in the country. He says the facility and management company was under heavy scrutiny following bad publicity, it conducted services through other companies. Agrizzi has continued to reveal alleged corruption at Correctional Services Department. For more click below:  