African National Congress Head of Election Western Cape Ebrahim Rasool has described Western Cape Premier Helen Zille‘s calls for a tax boycott as treasonous. This comes after Zille tweeted that she would mobilise a tax strike to bring this government to its senses, if corruption continues. She also says anyone who gives the ANC another a chance is an accomplice.  Rasool says Zille’s comments are worse than FF-Plus Western Cape premier candidate Peter Marais’ statement that if he were to win the upcoming provincial election he would call for a referendum to allow people of the province to decide whether they wanted to secede from South Africa or not. “Peter Marais is not for us the serious issue here. As serious issues when the Premier of the Western Cape Helen Zille calls for a tax boycott or a tax strike. That’s more serious. That’s almost treasonous. And we need to focus on whether she wants to implode the Western Cape economy. We can live with Peter Marais but we cannot live with potential treasonous statement calling for a tax boycott at the same time the President was trying to get investment in Davos.”   However, Democratic Alliance Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela says Zille is entitled to her own opinion. He says Zille’s tweets are not representative of the DA’s views. Madikizela has defended Zille saying Rasool is missing the point. “There’s always this outrage every time Helen says something. Helen is entitled to her own opinions. And so is Rasool. But I can understand where Helen is coming from. I mean if you were listening to what is happening in his country, – first it was Guptas. Now it’s Bosasa with the revelation that we have seen at the Zondo Commission. And we are told that this is the tip of an iceberg. I mean clearly if we have a government who is not using taxpayer’s money for what it is intended for,- then there is a valid question from people,- what is the point of being taxed if it end up in the pockets of few. And therefore I don’t blame Helen for having that view.” 