The African National Congress (ANC) says it will explain its side of the story to the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture following allegations by some witnesses that some of the party members are involved in corruption. Those who have been fingered include Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane and ANC Member of Parliament Vincent Smith. According to former Bosasa Chief Operations Officer Angelo Agrizzi, former Chief Financial Officer Andries van Tonder and former employee Frans Voster, the facility and management company gave Mokonyane monthly bribes and paid tuition fees for Smiths’ daughter who was studying overseas. Agrizzi, Van Tonder and Voster said Mokonyane was the link between Bosasa and the ANC and the company wanted to use her to secure the protection for Bosasa when it was being investigated. Head of ANC Presidency at Luthuli House, Zizi Kodwa, says there could be a public perception that the party is on trial. “We accept that fact because we are the governing party, that’s why we continue to make a call to those whose names continue to come up, let’s find a way to come. If they have any alternative version, they must come before the commission. The ANC is an organisation. To an extent that there were issues that specifically had to do with the ANC, like we explained the banks through the former secretary-general, we’ll do so when the ANC’s time comes.” Earlier, Voster also explained how he carried large amounts of cash to various meetings with the former Correctional Services Chief Financial Officer Patrick Gillingham. Voster said Bosasa Chief Executive Officer Gavin Watson gave him the money in an envelope. He told the Commission that the money helped Bosasa secure a catering deal with the Correctional Services Department. “When Gavin called me to the head office, he gave me cash, that cash would go with me. I don’t know if he had an agreement with Patrick but I didn’t question it.  It varied from R10 000, sometimes it was R5 000.  The most was around R20 000 in cash.  That led to us getting the catering contract that was awarded to us in 2004.” The commission says it might recall Voster to testify before it. The Commission will resume on Thursday at 10 o’clock. Click below for more on the story: