The controversial billboard erected by the DA in Johannesburg on Tuesday has been destroyed. A video is circulating on social media showing two men tearing it with a sharp object. But the DA is standing by its stance, following an outcry about this election billboard. Leader, Mmusi Maimane unveiled a billboard with the theme “The ANC is killing us.” Included were the names of those who died during the Marikana and Life Esidimeni tragedies.  The DA is adamant there is nothing wrong in exposing the bad things done by the governing party. Maimane says that the country must commemorate the victims of Marikana and Life Esidimeni. “We dare never forget that under this government many South Africans have been killed, who have lost their lives. We commemorate every South African who was killed by this ANC government.” Acting National Spokesperson of the ANC Zizi Kodwa has expressed outrage over the billboard and says that the ANC will take the matter further. “What we have decided to do is that we’ll take this to the electoral court because we think this kind of dirty campaign in a manner it has come out, I don’t think it’s good for our constitutional democracy where parties must contest fairly, not negatively.” UDM leader General Bantu Holomisa says that the DA must remove the names of the victims without delay. “The majority members of the DA only yesterday were part of the National Party machinery which killed many blacks in the country, but we have accepted the reconciliation process, which was started by Mandela and de Klerk. Let that be the last thing they do. They must remove the names of those affected families without delay.” ACDP leader Reverend Kenneth Meshoe labelled the DA’s actions as unfortunate. “For the DA leader, being a black person, to try and defend what they’ve done to go to an extent of publishing names of those people without approaching families to get permission. It was very unfortunate.” The DA says it will offer support to the families affected. Meanwhile, an alleged family member of one of the victims from Life Esidimeni is seen destroying the billboard. “The DA has confirmed that it has not consulted with the affected families before erecting this billboard. Following an outcry from across the country, it’s not clear whether the party will head to the call and remove it.” For more on the story, watch the video below: 