A divided Security Council has met on the unfolding situation in Venezuela with calls from the United States (US) for the international community to recognize the new democratic government led by the self-proclaimed President Juan Guaido. This, as momentum grew for political dialogue in the country, with countries from the European Union (EU) declaring that they too would recognize the new President if incumbent President Nicolas Maduro did not call fresh elections within 8 days. South Africa also expressed concern at what it called attempts to circumvent the country’s constitutional legal mechanisms while Russia accused the United States of attempting regime change. Russia tried but failed to block the meeting going ahead despite support from South Africa and two other countries, but they were in the minority with 9 countries including the United States (US) agreeing that Venezuela be placed on the agenda. “The United States stands with the Venezuelan people. So far, many other nations have chosen to do the same, and they too have recognized the legitimate government of interim President Guaido. The United States stands proudly with you as we stand together in support of Venezuela. You knew the Venezuelan people did not have a moment to spare. Now, it is time for every other nation to pick a side. No more delays; no more games. Either you stand with the forces of freedom, or you’re in league with Maduro and his mayhem. Some countries have publicly taken former president Maduro’s side,” says Michael Pompeo, US Secretary of State. The United States had earlier tried to win support for a Presidential Statement that would have called for an immediate start to a political process in Venezuela leading to free, fair and credible elections in the shortest possible time. Requiring the consensus of all Council members for it to be adopted, the Statement failed to be included in the official record. South Africa’s Ambassador, Jerry Matjila, expressed concern at what he called a clear attempt to circumvent the constitutional legal mechanisms in Venezuela. “I wish to stress that South Africa is firmly against any attempts at undue or unconstitutional change of government in Venezuela. The Security Council should never be an instrument that validates unconstitutional changes of any Government, anywhere, anytime. Instead, this Council should promote avenues that create environments for inclusive and conducive to dialogue and cooperation that would ease the challenges and hardships faced by the people of Venezuela,” says Matjila. European countries have coalesced around a position that if Maduro does not call new elections within eight days, they too would recognize Gauido as Interim President. China and Russia viewed this as interference in the affairs of a sovereign state. “We have no doubt that today’s meeting has been called by the American delegation with only one purpose to continue destabilising the situation in Venezuela by imposing on this country its own approaches and recipes to resolve the problems with which it has encountered recently. The meeting which we are being forced to be present is another ‘element’ of the strategy of the United States to effect regime change in Venezuela,” says Vasily Nebenzia, Russian Ambassador. Venezuela’s Foreign Minister who traveled to New York to participate in the meeting, accused Washington of sponsoring bloodshed in his country and questioned the legal standing of Juan Guiado. “The United States is not behind the coup de tat. It is in advance; it’s in the vanguard of the coup de tat. It is dictating the orders, not only to the Venezuelan opposition, but also to the satellite governments in the region and it seems in Europe and the others parts of the world. As proof, we have tweets here from social media. We have appeals, calls to the Security forces to the Bolivarian National Army to take position against the legitimate authorities, against the Constitutional Government of President Maduro by Secretary of State Pompeo and Vice President Pence,” says Jorge Arreaza, Venezuela’s chief diplomat. Chinese Ambassador took issue with US characterizations that only countries that rule without democracy were propping up Maduro. “China has always been committed to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and respected the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of all countries. China does not interfere in other countries’ internal affairs. We hope the country that accuses others can do likewise itself,” says Ambassador Ma Zhaoxu. The Maduro government has lost the support of several neighbouring States including Brazil, Argentina, Colombia and others that all support new elections. Regionally, only Cuba and Bolivia still back Maduro, along with his country’s military.