The president of the South African National Civics Organisation (SANCO) Richard Mdakane and the organisation’s Secretary-General, Skhumbuzo Mpanza have been released on R15 000 bail each. The two presented themselves at the Durban Central Police Station and later appeared at the Durban Magistrate Court. They are charged with fraud, corruption and theft of R1.1 million from SANCO. Both Mdakane and Mpanza are members of the African National Congress (ANC) in the National Assembly. The two top SANCO leaders presented themselves at the Durban Central Police Station after they resisted arrest on the day of the abandoned SANCO National Conference held in Alexandra north of Johannesburg last week. The two allegedly refused to be arrested, arguing that police who were there to arrest them had failed to follow due process in executing the warrant of arrest against them. After presenting themselves to the police, the two were then taken to court for a bail application. During their court appearance, a group of SANCO members were also in court, not to support the two but hear their fate. Mdakane and Mpanza entered the court room uncuffed. Their bail application was not opposed by the state, however there were conditions attached to their bail. The two were asked to hand over their personal laptop to the investigating team and also their passports. They were also warned not to communicate with witnesses. After their court appearance a group of SANCO members were singing outside court asking where is the organisation’s money. Speaking after their court appearance, KwaZulu-Natal SANCO Provincial Secretary, Richard Hlophe, said it is unfortunate and embarrassing that the organisation’s senior leaders are facing serious charges of squandering the organisation’s funds. “It is so unfortunate that such leaders have come before court today on charges of fraud .The fact that they also resisted arrest was also unfortunate, and it seriously embarrassed the image of SANCO as an organisation,” says Hlophe. The case has been remanded to the 29th of March. Watch a related video below: 