Four teachers from Ulundi in northern KwaZulu-Natal have been sitting at home for three years with full pay. They say the then head of the education department forced them to leave the school for safety reasons, but provincial education authorities say they have no knowledge of the problem. One of the teachers says he’s at his wits end. He and his colleagues from Matshitsholo High School near Ulundi have been paid at least R5 million in salaries, sitting at home. Their problems started after the school had a fall-out with the community over an alleged cheating scandal. He says they were singled out and the head of the education department told them to stay at home while the investigation continued. They were replaced by four other teachers. The teacher claims no-one ever came back to them about the investigation. He says they’ve reported the matter to the education authorities to no avail. “Ever since I was suspended on 2 February 2016, I continue to receive my full salary by God’s grace.” The teacher says they never received any suspension letters. “We received no letter informing us of our suspension. At the time, the acting HOD Adv. Masuku together with the station commander of Mpungamhlophe agreed that the situation was no longer safe so it was better we remained at home.” Spokesperson for the Department of Education, Muzi Mhlambi, says that the department did not send anybody home. “He must come forward so that we are aware of such matters, but we are aware of people who are on sick leave and we are terminating some of them.” Allen Thompson of the National Teachers’ Union (NATU) says KwaZulu-Natal spends millions every year paying for teachers who are sitting at home. “Last year in the province of KZN alone in the bargaining council, it was reported that over R180 million per month was being utilised to pay for educators who are being displaced who have been suspended for more than 90 days from the workplace.” The union said it would take up matters like these with the national ministry.