The African National Congress (ANC) says the names of 200 candidates on the party list that could be deployed to parliament will be vetted thoroughly and candidates with criminal convictions will not be considered. The individuals on the list have not yet been asked whether they will accept or reject the nominations. The list, comprised of 800 names, has been cut down to 200; and the ANC says its National Executive will now begin the vetting process. ANC acting national spokesperson, Zizi Kodwa says, “The next phase is important – the phase of vetting. Vetting may include – can this person make the ANC to gain at least one vote. We don’t want a name on the list of the ANC that will minus one voter. So each name on the list which is an important phase is that each name must bring more voters to the ANC … The third phase will be among others include whether people on the mist themselves are available.” Kodwa says the extended ANC NEC, taking place in Umhlanga, north of Durban, is now to deliberate on the January 8th Statement as well as the party manifesto, after concluding matters regarding the party list. South Africa is scheduled to go to the polls in May this year in a national election which could prove to be a major test for the governing party. President Cyril Ramaphosa has promised a new path for the ANC after allegations of state capture and widespread maladministration. The Democratic Alliance (DA), Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and other opposition parties are hoping to make substantial gains against the ANC in the provincial and national poll. Kodwa says the ANC remains focused. “What happens after today is that yesterday we consolidated the list in terms of national. What happens today that we were discussing it is still an extended NEC and alliance partners discussing the manifesto of the ANC. Will then be focusing on what the manifesto is about because what is important is not to have a basket of promises but commitments.” “We got an experience in government. It is not like we are doing political adventure. We know what it means to be in government. For 25 years we have done better to change South Africa.” Click video below: 