President Cyril Ramaphosa has pledged to support the family of murdered Limpopo student Precious Ramabulana to start a foundation to address violence in the country. The 21-year-old Ramabulana was stabbed more than 50 times in her room outside the Capricorn College campus in Mokomene in November. Ramaphosa visited the family on Sunday to pay his condolences. He has called for an end to violence against women and children. The bereaved family members, relatives and community members welcomed Ramaphosa to Maname Paradise village. Members of the bereaved family seem to be living in poverty. Their three-roomed house has patches on the wall and has not been completely plastered. The government has promised to build a house for the family.  President Ramaphosa says he’ll support a trust fund or or a foundation established in Precious Ramabulana’s name as it will contribute to the fight against gender-based violence. “The family has decided that they’d like to set up Precious Ramabulana Fund or Trust and we’re going to support them on this because we believe that when we have like non governmental organisations like trusts that are aimed at addressing the situation like gender-based violence in that way so we’re going to support the family and we’ll continue to give solace to them and all the support that they need.” Ramaphosa has reiterated the call for stiff penalties against the perpetrators of gender-based violence. “We’re going to improve the criminal justice system to ensure that those who perpetrate these acts must know that once they’re arrested and found guilty, they should never see the light of the day anymore; and that once imprisoned they must see the rest of their days in prison. What saddens me even more is that the perpetrator has had his brushes with the law with the rape type of a charge and he was still out prowling the streets of our country.” The family spokesperson, Tovhele Vele Kutama, has thanked Ramaphosa for the support. “We are happy about the President’s visit. We are happy that the President has promised to fulfil the requests of the family, they want a house, they have a child who still needs to go to school. We are also happy as he wants to see a stiff penalty against the suspect and that he should not get parole.” A gender activist in the area – Rinae Sengane – believes that Ramaphosa’s commitment to the fight against gender-based violence will help create a safer environment.” “It was worth it he did respond to what the mother of the deceased requested she did request a lot of things you’ll hear the president talking about the Precious Ramabulana Trust Fund we are happy we know that he wouldn’t just come here and say something that he wouldn’t do so we’re happy that he’ll deliver to what he said I feel relied that if the president is going to implement what he was saying here so we have a safer country or we’re going to be safe as women.” Meanwhile, the suspect arrested in connection with the killing of Ramabulana will make his first appearance in the Morebeng Magistrate’s Court near Botlokwa on Monday. Another suspect arrested for the alleged murder of a 57-year-old woman who was buried in a shallow grave in Shiosana village in Malamulele, will also appear in court tomorrow. Watch the video below for more on the story: 