The Johannesburg Road Agency says it could take a week to put in place security measures around the M1 south bridge at the Booysens off-ramp, south of Johannesburg. Temporary measures are being taken to contain the damage. Authorities say while the safety of the bridge has been compromised, it remains open to traffic. Water from a drain system caused sand to erode, resulting in the paving blocks of the bridge to collapse. No fatalities or injuries were reported. JRA Acting Managing Director Siyabonga Nodu earlier refuted reports that the part of the M1 south bridge collapsed when the sand eroded. “What we are now doing is to make sure that we clean the stormwater drainage on top, take out the rubble, reset the whole channel area. After communicating with the bridge engineer, we have spoken to our depot. We are looking at about a week for them to work here and stabilise this area and make sure that it is safe. “However, we also emphasize the fact that we must look at the weather to say when are we going to have the next rains because if they are coming tomorrow we must be ready in terms of the interim measure that no further damage is done here and further erosion.”  The M1 South is one of the busiest highways around Johannesburg, carrying heavy volumes of traffic. Structural experts are on-site to assess the damage. The affected section will be cordoned off. Nodu futher explains: “The bridge is structurally sound, but the cause of the actual erosion that has happened and the collapse of …. sandbags to block water and water properly channelled…” Permanent repair work will only be done next month. Motorists are urged to remain cautious. Johannesburg  Metro Police’s Xolani Fihla says, “When we realised structural defect, the side of the road will be cordoned off and the sand which slid on the road removed because cars travelling at high speed could be involved in an accident.” This latest incident again raises questions around the poor maintenance of bridges.
Recently the M2 was closed for extensive repair work. Of the 950 audited Bridges in JHB, the Johannesburg Roads Agency says 50 are in need of emergency repair or rehabilitation which could cost in the region R5 billion. Work has begun on some. In November the M2 was reopened after 8 month-long repairs. The JRA says it’s still waiting for more money from the City through the budget adjustment process. Click on the video below: 