Public Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane says even though her office works hard investigating cases to root out corruption, some municipalities in the North West are still disregarding the recommendations given out by her office. The public protector visited the North West province to meet with the Premier, Job Mokgoro, and new executive members to discuss matters of governance and ethics. She also conducted a community outreach to listen to the public concerns. The Office of the Public Protector embarked on an annual stakeholder roadshow this week in the North West. Maladministration and unlawful hiring are just some of the cases the public protector is still investigating in different municipalities of the province. Mkhwebane says they have issued out a lot of reports. “It relates to the municipalities’ maladministration. It relates to irregular appointments and violation of supply chain processes. We got the one where there are a lot of reports we’ve issued. Ngaka Modiri Molema, Matlosana, Taung. There are several of them.” She says some of the recommendations by her office are still being disregarded by some of these municipalities. “A lot of those remedial actions are, unfortunately, not implemented. We will be working with the MEC because as well they’ve got limited roles. We will check how we meet the legislature because they also have an oversight. They intervene and force that they are implemented.”  Mkhwebane also went to Tlokweng village near Rustenburg to engage with the local community about their concerns. Residents, who packed the Tlokweng Tribal Hall, raised issues that include land claims, the treatment at their local police station, improved schools and sanitation among others. They have asked Advocate Mkhwebane to intervene. “At this point in time, the Barokologadi are the landlords. That is why I beg the public protector to at least review the claim because it shows there is somehow corruption.” However, the Chief of Batlokwa says there are rules to follow. “There have been direct complains … issues like land, people needing land to build or stands to build on. However, the tribe has rules as to who should get land and who should not get land, but it’s not a perfect system.” The public protector says government must ensure good governance and that services are delivered to the people.