[This story may offend sensitive readers including children] The family of the slain sangoma, Anele Hoyana says they are saddened about his brutal murder. Hoyana was allegedly bludgeoned to death by farmer Fritz Joubert near Gonubie in East London. A video showing Joubert with a riffle telling Hoyana to kneel in front of him and calling him the devil has gone viral on social media. Joubert was later shot and killed by the police during a scuffle.  Anele Hoyana’s death went viral after several clips of video footage taken before he was murdered circulated in social media. In the video Joubert Fritz is seen calling Hoyana the devil. Another clip shows a woman, believed to be his fiancee crying and Hoyana lying on the floor. His brother Olwethu Hoyana who went to identify his body at the farm says he saw how gruesome his brother was murdered. “Fritz who was our neighbour had been on some kind of as rage to be aggressive towards Anele. Our understanding from the police who were on the scene was that he bludgeoned Anele with a butt of his rifle which was found on the scene and subsequently held his fiancee and two children hostage.” Independent Police Investigative Directorate is also conducting an investigation following the death of Joubert after an alleged scuffle with the police at the farm. It’s alleged that after Joubert killed Hoyana, he also held his two children hostage. IPID spokesperson Sontaga Seisa says he was fatally wounded by an on-duty police officer during a scuffle. “It’s alleged the deceased assaulted and killed another adult male prior to him being shot by police. He held hostage to two children. The children were rescued by police but the scuffle with the deceased led to police fatally shooting him to end an imminent possible death. The police will be investigating the death of the other male killed by the deceased that was finally killed by the police.” Police spokesperson Brigadier Thembinkosi Kinana says they will be reviewing the video footage of Hoyana’s murder. He has appealed to anyone that can assist the investigation to come forward. “We appeal to the people to be patient with the process of investigation and whoever does have any piece of information that one thinks can actually assist our investigation to please forward that information so that our investigating officers can expedite the process of investigation.” His brother says as much as the circulating video clips bring pain to the family, they have also given clarity on how Hoyana sustained the injuries that led to his death.  