High traffic volumes are expected on the N3 toll route towards KwaZulu-Natal Monday night and on Tuesday as many South Africans make a last dash to reach their holiday destinations. Motorists have again been urged to exercise caution. JMPD Spokesperson, Xolani Fihla has appealed to motorists that will be travelling long distances to get enough rest. “One of the busiest routes has to be the N3. Traffic volumes can go up to 2 000 to 3 500 per hour and the highest time of the peak can be between 12:00 in the afternoon and 18:00 and that’s especially tomorrow as it is Christmas Eve. We are appealing to motorists that will be travelling long distances to have enough rest before they embark on a journey. Make sure that your vehicle is in a roadworthy condition and have a two-hour break after every two hours or 200 kms.” Government will from now oppose bail application by motorists caught driving above 200km/h in a 120km zone and those driving under the influence of alcohol. At least 589 people have died in road crashes since the start of the festive season. As compared to 839 in 2018, there has been a slight reduction. Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula says speeding and drunk driving are some of the contributory factors to road fatalities. “We will work to utilise every possible avenue in law to oppose bail for those caught speeding in excess of 200km/h  in a 120km/h a zone. We will apply the same vigour in ensuring those arrested for drunk and driving reckless and negligence driving are also denied bail as this are major contributing factors to the high level of fatalities on our roads.” More than 600 000 vehicles were stopped by traffic police in 539 roadblocks countrywide since the beginning of the festive season. Mbalula says driver behaviour has improved. “Since the beginning of the festive season campaign, a total of 629 661 vehicles were stopped in 539 roadblocks stage. Nationwide, this resulted in 231 937 traffic fines being issued to motorists for various transgressions of the law. The number of arrest have also come down from 3 052, representing a slide improvement of driver behaviour.” FOR MORE, WATCH THE VIDEOS BELOW:   