The family of Sarah Masango, who passed away in Greece in November, will finally be able to bury their loved one after a pharmaceutical company lent a helping hand. Masango from Kwa-Ndebele in Mpumalanga passed away on 14 November at a Greece hospital after a short illness. Her family battled to bring back Masango’s remains home due to the exorbitant fees required for repatriation. The family has now finally received her mortal remains at OR Tambo International Airport on Monday after the company paid the R71 000 required for repatriation. The 32-year-old left South Africa to become a seasonal worker in Greece six years ago. Masango’s family says despite the difficult circumstances they find themselves in, being granted the opportunity to bury their loved one on the eve of Christmas, is the best gift they could have ever asked for. Her brother Gilbert Maenetja says the family is relieved. “What I can say is thanks to Mr Jackie Tau, who played a big role for our family to pay the R71 000. Finally, we are happy as a family. We are going to bury my sister on Tuesday at Kwa-Ndebele,” says Maenetja. Waiting at the airport to receive her remains were Masango’s family and some members of the community. One of them is Sarah Senyane who has been assisting the family since learning of Sarah’s passing. “I found that I should stand up, and assist Gilbert to make sure that her sister comes home. I feel that it’s her right to come home and it is our duty to make sure that if a member of the community is having a problem. We help each other,” says Senyane. The pharmaceutical company that assisted the family says due to its large global footprint, it has a social responsibility to assist where it can. “The spirit of Ubuntu has to prevail here. So, if you look at the predicament of the late Sarah and her family. She was a young lady, and her remains could not be returned to the country, now that’s a very sad situation for any family to be involved in. This really appealed to us, but more importantly it is in the spirit of Ubuntu and nation-building. These are the types of things we have to do as South Africans,” says Senior Executive, Stavros Nicolaou. The International Relations and Co-operation Department is appealing to those travelling or working outside the country to ensure they have travel insurance. Watch the video for more on the story: 