Seven people have died on Limpopo‘s roads in the past 24 hours. Two died in a head-on collision on the R101 in Mokopane. Two babies died when the vehicle that they were travelling in overturned at Malamulele. A driver was killed on the N1 in Mookgophong while two people were knocked down by cars in Thohoyandou and Malamulele respectively. In Mokopane, the driver of a sedan allegedly lost control of his vehicle which veered into the opposite lane and collided head-on with a bakkie. The two passengers in the sedan were killed on the spot. In another incident, a learner driver transporting twelve people allegedly lost control of the vehicle which overturned, killing two infants aged one month and five months, at Xigalo village outside Malamulele. Another driver has been killed when his sedan collided with a taxi on the N1 in Mookgophong. The driver had allegedly made a U-turn.  A 47-year-old female pedestrian was killed on the Punda Maria road at Muledane, Thohoyandou. Another pedestrian was knocked down at Madonsi village in Malamulele. Police spokesperson, Motlafela Mojapelo says they are investigating several cases of culpable homicide. “There are several cases of culpable homicide that have been opened by the police in the province. There’s the one that took place along the R101 road in the Mokopane policing prison. There’s another one that took place along the N1 in Mookgophong and we are also investigating the other one that took place in the Thohoyandou policing. There’s one that apparently the driver made a U-turn and collided head-on with a taxi full of passengers, our investigations into all these cases are still continuing and nobody has been arrested.” Some motorists have expressed satisfaction with the high visibility of traffic officers on the roads. “I’m from Joburg to Limpopo in Thohoyandou and so far there’s no traffic. I was expecting that everyone would be at home by now but no some are on the road but the traffic is moving. So far I’m happy, nothing wrong, yes they are there doing their job, it is alright because they are protecting us.” Meanwhile, two suspects have been arrested for allegedly attacking police officers in a separate incident during the crime prevention campaign in Mokopane, Limpopo. 