A Klerksdorp family, in the North West, is calling for justice, following the death of their son in what they believe was a hate crime. A 16-year-old gay learner, Omphemetse Moleme was found dead in a Jouberton house early last month. Members of the LGBTQI-Plus community in the area believe that Moleme was killed for being gay. Omphemetse Moleme was found dead inside a Jourberton township house, in Klerksdrop after he went missing for a few days, before locals discovered his body – in a house belonging to a man unknown to Moleme’s family. The family says they suspect that their son was murdered for his sexual orientation. His distraught mother, Mmathapelo explains: “I suspect that my son was killed although the post-mortem says it’s natural death. The way he was, at the time I went to identify him at the mortuary he looked like a murdered person even his neck had turned. From a very young age, I knew he was gay, he never played with boys, he was always with girls.” Although the police have opened an inquest case at this stage, LGBTIQ-Plus activists are not happy. Social For Justice International, which advocates for the LGBTIQ-Plus rights, shares the same sentiments as Moleme’s family. They say this is part of hate crimes committed against the community. Thabiso Mogapi, who is an activist, says they are not satisfied with the manner in which LGBTIQ-Plus cases are handled. “It is something that says to us, something is wrong somewhere and in the system there has to be something done. We have to push SAPS to continue investigating the case, we have to follow the justice system in terms of prosecution.” Another member of the LGBTIQ-Plus community member, Thabiso Botcheli, who also lives in Jourberton, says they live in fear, due to an increase in hate crime cases that have been reported. “Right now as a person I have to live in fear and stay indoors because we always ask ourselves some questions that – what if I go outside I will meet someone who will attack me and kill me. And my family will say, we told you. But then today I live in fear because these people we meet in the streets and those we think we trust are the ones killing us.” Earlier, police spokesperson in the province, Sabata Mokgwabone indicated that the case has since been referred to court, where it will be determined if it should be handled as a murder or an inquest case depending on police information. 