Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula is calling on law enforcement officers to say no to bribery and corruption. Speaking at the Marianhill Toll Plaza in Durban, Mbalula says two Tshwane metro police officers have been arrested for allegedly soliciting a bribe. He says the multi-disciplinary sting operations will continue even after the festive season. The Minister says their increased actions this festive season are yielding results. “We taking them down those who take bribes must know that their days are numbered. We arrested two in Pretoria.” “It is going to be sporadic, spontaneous all over. Because it is important we’ve got to do something about people who are law officers who undermine initiatives of keeping South Africans safe. So we lock them away. If you are a law enforcement officer you must respect the uniform.”  ‘Report any allegations’ Meanwhile, the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC)  has urged the public to report any allegations of bribery and corruption to their national call centre. RTMC spokesperson, Simon Zwane, says tip-offs of this nature can be reported on 0861 400 800. “We urge members of the public to work with us to defeat the scourge and call us on 0861 400 800. They should have the details of the street, where possible the names of the officials – because they have to wear name tags, try and identify the vehicle they are using and take their number plates down and the time they were there and any other evidence will be useful.”  Warning to motorists Transport Minister has warned motorists that they will face the full might of the law for drunk driving and driving over the speed limit. This comes as authorities gear up for new year’s parties across the country. Mbalula says law enforcement officers are working to issue fines or arrest those who break the law. “We are going to ensure that the law does bite for drinking and driving, it is a serious matter for the public and there are a lot of fatalities on our roads. This is because of drinking and driving, unroadworthy vehicles, driving over the speed limit. Of all of those, topping the list is drinking and driving which we are attending to.”