President Cyril Ramaphosa has called for South Africans to turn the past years’ adversities into opportunities. In his New Year message to the nation, Ramaphosa says the country will succeed in 2020 by working together. He has sent a message of hope and peace to all citizens. “Just as the strongest steel is forged in fire, just as diamonds are forged deep inside the earth’s crust under the most extreme pressure, let us turn adversity into opportunity. In doing so, let us each play our part, for upon the conduct of each depends on the fate of all. By working together towards the South Africa that we all want, sparing neither strength nor courage, we will progress and we will succeed. I wish you and yours a successful and peaceful 2020.”  Kick start the economy He has acknowledged that many South African lives have yet to be changed for the better. The Ramaphosa administration has identified foreign investment, economic growth, improved management at SOEs and cost-cutting as some of the measures to kick start the economy. Ramaphosa says more needs to be done in 2020 to lift the poor out of poverty. “For many South Africans, the hardships endured. While our economy created jobs, these have not been nearly enough to stop the rise in unemployment or the deepening of poverty. Many South Africans’ lives have changed for the better, but many others are yet to feel the benefits of economic reforms and new investments.” State-owned enterprises President Ramaphosa says the government is working towards rebuilding public institutions. This after several state-owned enterprises received financial bailouts this year. He adds that the country will continue fighting against state capture and corruption. “Steadily, we are rebuilding the public institutions that are so vital to our democracy, restoring our law enforcement agencies, and taking forward the fight against state capture and corruption. And so, we enter this New Year and this new decade, encouraged by the progress we have made under difficult conditions, knowing that we still have many mountains to climb, and many treacherous rivers to cross.” Economic ties with the rest of Africa President Ramaphosa says South Africa is seeking to work with countries across the continent to help strengthen economic ties. He says as South Africa takes up its position as chair of the African Union in 2020, leaders will discuss the possibilities around an Africa Free Trade Area. “From January, South Africa takes up its position as Chair of the African Union. We will seek to work with our sister countries to realise an Africa Free Trade Area that stretches from Cape Town to Cairo, and from Dakar to Mombasa. We know only too well the enormity of the challenges that confront us, but we are united in the knowledge that we have the means and the determination to overcome them.”