The African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL) has come out strongly against the extension of liquor trading hours from 9 to 11 January next year in time for the ANC’s 107th-anniversary celebrations. The extension was done by the Northern Cape MEC for Economic Development And Tourism Maruping Lekwene. The league’s Secretary-General, Meokgo Matuba says: “As the ANCWL we find this decision not to be in the interest of the public and a total misrepresentation of what the ANC stands for. This reduces the 107th Anniversary Celebrations of our beloved ANC into a drinking spree. “We are further concerned that the MEC is ignorant of all alcohol-related challenges which the province is confronted with. Statistics South Africa’s Demographic and Health Survey released late 2018 has reported that 6% of women in the province show signs of problem drinking. This figure is double the national average. Moreover, 10% of Northern Cape women are more likely to binge drink, which is also double the national average.” Matuba adds: “We call for the MEC to revoke the decision of extending liquor operating hours in the Northern Cape. We will never allow for ANC celebrations to be reduced to a drinking jamboree. We will also not allow the ANC Anniversary weekend to contribute further to alcohol-related challenges which negatively impacts society in the province. The ANC led government stands for and supports communities to thrive, that does not involve destroying society through the cankerworm of alcohol abuse. For the interests of the public, this decision must be revoked with immediate effect.”    ANC STATEMENT ON THE EXTENSION OF THE LIQUOR HOURS The African National Congress Provincial Officials have since the morning been in consultation with the MEC responsible for Economic Development and Tourism, Comrade Maruping Lekwene on the matter as it relates to the extension of Trading hours for licensed liquor traders from the 09-11 January 2020. Having considered all views from different sectors in society and structures within the ANC, we are of the view that the decision should be revoked with immediate effect, as the decision will not be in the broader interest of the people of the Sol-plaatje Municipal and has had a direct effect on how the Anniversary of the ANC is being perceived. We therefore request all parties involved to exercise the highest form of discipline and ensure that we host a successful January 8 Anniversary of the ANC. Issued by the African National Congress-Northern Cape Deshi Ngxanga Provincial Secretary