The Mpumalanga High Court has sentenced serial rapist Henry Hlahla to four life terms plus additional 287 years for various crimes including rape, robbery and attempted murder. Hlahla’s terror spree went on for seven years in and around Tonga, Naas and Komatipoort. Handing down the sentence, Judge Bruce Langa said Hlahla did not show any remorse for his deeds, saying he feels there is also no way of rehabilitating him. “The accused will therefore serve the terms of imprisonment together with the life imprisonment. In other words, they will run concurrently with the life imprisonment. The effect of the orders is in summary form; he is sentenced to life imprisonment four life and an effective imprisonment term of 287 years.” The 42-year-old raped more than 30 women over a seven-year period. Judge Langa says he considered that Hlahla would sometimes rape two or more women simultaneously. The majority of the women were raped on their way from taverns or work and in their homes. Judge Langa also says the rape crimes committed by Hlahla were properly planned. Speaking on behalf of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), Advocate John Maenga welcomed the sentence, saying it will send a strong message to potential rapists. “It was a complicated case, but the police did a wonderful work, with present the evidence available, the NPA satisfied the sentence. I believe the community is satisfied about it and it will serve as deterrent to others who think of raping.” Judge Langa also lauded the Tonga police officers for their investigative work on the cases against Hlahla. WATCH VIDEO BELOW:  KZN serial rapist and murderer In KwaZulu-Natal,  the Scottburgh High Court sentenced a 32-year-old man to six life terms and 154 years imprisonment for various charges, including rape and murder. Nkosinathi Ngcobo was linked to 22 cases through DNA in Mehlomnyama, Port Shepstone, Southport and Benoni between 2017 and 2018. “Ngcobo was facing 22 counts of murder, rape and armed robbers. However, he was sentenced on 19 counts and acquitted on three counts of those charges,” says Hawks spokesperson in KwaZulu-Natal Simphiwe Mhlongo.