The Economic Freedom Fighters in Tshwane doesn’t believe there was anything wrong during the removal of Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa and the Speaker Katlego Mathebe. The DA has been granted an interdict by the High Court in Pretoria, temporarily setting aside the no confidence vote. The matter will be heard on 17 of December. The ANC in the City of Tshwane says it plans to challenge the DA’s court application. The EFF and ANC also appointed an acting speaker, EFF councillor Obakeng Ramabodu. The DA boycotted the vote and says the entire process was illegal. EFF Regional Chairperson Mo-Afrika Mabogwana says they are also going to oppose the DA’s application. ” We are disappointed, but look we are going to forge ahead and fight the case on the 17th, because we believe that there is nothing that we have done wrong. We followed the rules to the latter and the DA has got no case. So, when we go to the court on the 17th, we will argue to the court that the rules of the council makes provision that any council resolution can be revoked by the majority of the council.” Chairperson of the ANC in Tshwane, Kgosi Maepa has denied that Friday was a day of victory for the DA. “Because that matter was only brought to court this morning the judge allowed all parties to bring their replying affidavits by the 10th of December and for the matter to be listened 7 days thereafter, on the 17th. So, if the DA is going out like we are seeing now, claiming that they won the court and the matter was reversed, they are lying. They are telling blue lies, because in fact, the judge has allowed the matter to be listened to on 17th of December.” Meanwhile, the DA in Gauteng has accused the ANC of abusing its powers in the Tshwane Metro and provincial administration by wanting to put Tshwane under administration and earlier instituting a vote of no confidence DA mayor Stevens Mokgalapa. DA Gauteng leader John Moodey, says, “It is very clear that the ANC are abusing their authority and power they have in the provincial government, by even stating that they have placed the city under administration and that is in fact not so. Having said that, the good news is that Tshwane has got an executive mayor that it’s Councillor Stevens Mokgalapa, who is on leave and Acting Mayor, Abel Tau. Speaker, Councillor Katlego Mathebe, has been reinstated with immediate effect.”