The National Freedom Party (NFP) in KwaZulu-Natal has decided to pull out of either of the two party parallel conferences scheduled for Friday and the weekend. Earlier the party’s provincial leadership had indicated that the province was attending the Free State conference. The pro-Zanele KaMagwaza-Msibi faction will hold its national conference at Ulundi while the other faction composed of the party’s Bhungu Gwala is organising its gathering in the Free State. Party provincial chairperson Vikizitha Mlotshwa says, “We had a meeting today where we discussed the very same issue of two conferences. We took a stance that we will not attend either the Free State conference or Ulundi conference. They need to sit down as nec discuss and iron out all their differences. They must know that we will take the issue to court if they fail to refrain themselves from continuing with both conferences.” Squabbles in the NFP date back to 2016, when the party failed to contest municipal elections. At some point last year, both factions tried to reconcile, however those attempts later collapsed. Now the party in KZN which earlier indicated that they were attending the Free State conference has now decided to pull out from attending either of the two parallel conferences. Mlotshwa explains, “We had a meeting today where we discussed the very same issue of two conferences. We took a stance that we will not attend either the Free State conference or Ulundi conference. They need to sit down as nec discuss and iron out all their differences. They must know that we will take the issue to court if they fail to refrain themselves from continuing with both conferences.” The NFP MP who unsuccessfully tried to halt both conferences, Mansoor Shaik Immum has warned that the two factions risk dragging each other to court after these two parallel conferences should they continue with their gatherings. “In the interest of the party I believe because this can have a devastating effect on the future if the NFP if we do not reach a common ground and put our differences aside in the interest of the people and the party. I believe there is that opportunity, it’s never too late and take a decision and postpone the conferences.” The pro-kaMagwaza Msibi’s Jeremiah Mavundla admits that the on-going divisions and parallel conferences will further drift the party apart. However he says those who chose to convene their own conference in Free State have defined themselves outside the NFP. 