Multiple vehicle collisions have kept emergency services busy in and around Durban central, which happened overnight and on Saturday morning. Rescue Care paramedics say they have responded to more than 20 vehicle collisions. One incident was a collision between three vehicles on the M7 near the Westgate interchange that left one man critically injured and three others with moderate to serious injuries. Rescue Care Paramedic spokesperson Garith Jamieson says increased traffic is expected as holidaymakers take to the roads. Jamieson says, “At around 6pm last night, rescue paramedics responded to a head on collision between a taxi and a vehicle, one of the drivers sustained critical injuries and was placed on a manual ventilation system on the scene.” “An approximately 12 others sustained several injuries ranging from minor to serious. At the same time just after 6pm in the M7 near the Westgate interchange three vehicles have collided, one man sustained critical injuries and was placed on a manual ventilator while 3 others sustained moderate injuries,” said Jamieson. He says, “We would like to advise all motorists to please allow extra travel time and be cautious on the roads with the increase of traffic volume as the December holidays are upon us.”  Warning for Gale force winds The South Africa Weather Service says the western and southern parts of KwaZulu-Natal are expected to have isolated thunderstorms on Saturday. It has also issued a warning for Gale force winds over the coastal areas between Margate and Richards Bay in the afternoon. Over the past week the province saw heavy rains that led to localised flooding. Forecaster Wisani Maluleke says on Sunday, the province can expect isolated showers and rain with strong winds along the coast. “Over KwaZulu-Natal today we do expect isolated thunder storm activities over the western half of the province and the southern part of the province. The western half include your Ladysmith, Newcastle areas and giants Castle, Kokburg. We also have a watch for the costal areas, with strong damaging winds along the coast reaching up to 35 to 40 North just between Margate and Richards Bay this afternoon. And then going into tomorrow we expecting clouds to come in the province.”