As the New Year draws closer, Durban residents and tourists can expect a spectacular show of fireworks this evening at North Beach on the Golden Mile. The city has put together a firework display and people can attend free of charge. The display will start at 11:4PM and end at 12:15AM. This is in line with the municipal by-law guidelines set to cater for people and animals. eThekwini mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, says this will be a memorable experience for all who attend. “We are more than prepared to usher them into the New Year, we’ll be displaying our fireworks here on the two piers, so we invite those who will be around the beach to come and take photos. They will be really beautiful photos when we usher ourselves into the New Year.  As people are thinking about their resolutions for the New Year, many Durban residents and holidaymakers say 2019 was a very tough year. Many say they are hoping to make a difference in the country in 2020. Many are concerned with the situation in the country. Issues like unemployment, instability at schools and violence against women and children were raised as they reflected on 2019. Many say they are grateful that they were able to endure. “It was a hard year but we made it. I’m a student and I learnt that we have to stand together and be strong as the youth. If we are together, we can conquer everything. In 2019, I learnt to never give up, there will always be challenges.”  Meanwhile, the city of Durban has started counting the economic spin-offs gained from the influx of holiday makers over the festive season. The coastal city recorded 1 million local and international tourists since the beginning of the holidays. Kaunda says the season has been a fruitful one for the city. Kaunda says over the holidays the city managed to contribute 2.7 billion towards country’s economy. At the same time, the mayor has assured those who will be out and about to usher in the New Year, that  that police be out in full force to ensure safety. Kaunda has urged those who will be out celebrating the start of the new year to do so responsibly. He also encouraged men to use 2020 to unite in the fight against gender-based violence. “We must all enjoy responsibly, we wish all our citizens and all South Africans a prosperous new year as we usher ourselves to this new year. But let us deal with the old chapter and close it by their remaining hours so that when we usher ourselves into the new year we leave all the social ills that have been engulfing our nation especially gender based violence which had been showing its ugly face. So we must all work together to defeat that scourge. It is a scourge that can be defeated as long as we work together as a nation.”  The eThekwini Metro Police and the South African Police Services will be out is full force to ensure people’s safety. People have been warned not to drink and drive.