Solar power companies in Southeast
Asian that are competing for land with agriculture, industry and expanding
populations have found an innovative alternative: placing floating panels in
lakes, dams, reservoirs and the sea. Earlier this week, the state utility
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) said it will submit a
proposal for a 45-megawatt floating solar plant in the Sirindhorn dam in the
country’s northeast. EGAT plans to invest in about 16 such projects across 9 dams in the country, deputy governor Thepparat Theppitak told reporters. Elsewhere in the region, Singapore is
developing one of the world’s largest offshore floating solar systems in the
Strait of Johor to the north of the island. “In land-scarce countries like
Singapore, the widespread use of PV systems is hindered by space constraints
and limited roof space,” said Frank Phuan, chief executive officer of
Sunseap Group, which is building the system. The platform has to be “more
robust” than systems in reservoirs or lakes to withstand tougher
conditions on the open sea, and to overcome barnacles that may grow on it, he
said. It was also difficult to find a spot
in the sea that was not frequented by shipping vessels, he said. Despite these challenges, floating
solar systems are growing quickly in Asia alongside those on the ground and on
roofs according to the Solar Energy Research Institute of Singapore (SERIS). While floating panels are more
expensive to install, they are up to 16% more efficient because the water’s cooling
effect helps reduce thermal losses and extend their life, according to SERIS. The panels also reduce evaporation
from water bodies when temperatures are warm, thus saving freshwater for
drinking. “The greater efficiency offsets the
higher cost of installation,” said Celine Paton, a senior financial
analyst at SERIS. “Technological advances should soon bring them on par with ground systems” in terms of cost, said Paton. Southeast Asia is particularly well suited for floating panels because of the scarcity of land and because they can be easily installed in the region’s many hydro power dams, where they can use existing transmission systems, she said. China currently accounts for most of
the more than 1.1-gigawatts of floating solar capacity now installed, according
to the World Bank. India recently announced a plan to
develop 10-GW of floating solar capacity. The technology’s potential is about 400-GW, or about as much generating capacity as all the solar photo voltaic panels installed in the world through 2017, the World Bank said. There are concerns that the panels
could block sunlight, affecting marine life and ecosystems, and that the
electrical systems might not withstand the onslaught of water. But backers say the technology is
proven, and that the panels cover too small a surface area to create major
problems.