The Democratic Alliance (DA) has laid criminal charges with the police after its billboard was vandalised. The party’s new billboard which was erected in the Johannesburg CBD was burnt down in the early hours of Monday. The DA has accused the ANC for the vandalisation of its new billboard which read “The ANC Has Killed The Lights” and asked voters to vote for the DA in the upcoming elections. DA Chief Whip, John Steenhuisen, says the party will work with the Independent Electoral Commission to deal with the situation. “We’ll be launching a complaint with the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) because it’s a violation of the Electoral Act to damage party political material. It’s very clear that the truth obviously hurt and the message on the billboard, which says that we don’t have an Eskom problem, we got an ANC problem in South Africa and placing the blame for loadshedding and loss of jobs as a result, firmly indicates that the government is touched at all nerves and that is why the billboard has been damaged.”  Meanwhile, DA leader Mmusi Maimane has urged South Africans to take charge of their future and refrain from being victims of empty promises from political parties. Maimane spoke to communities in Soweto while on a door-to-door campaign as part of the events leading up to the party’s election manifesto launch at the Randfontein Stadium in the West Rand on Saturday. The party will reveal what it plans to tackle if they win the general elections in May. However, residents of Meadowlands seemed skeptical of the opposition leader’s advances, saying they are tired of empty promises from politicians. Maimane says his party will ensure that at the top of its agenda will be to tackle unemployment. He promised that the DA plans to ensure that in every household there is at least one income earner. “Of course, one is never enough, but I want more people working. I want more jobs in homes because we can get more people jobs, but we must start with one. 40% of our households don’t have a single income. We must address that decisively and increase the number of people working.”   