The South African Communist Party (SACP)  as well as civic organisation, Sanco, in the North West have expressed disappointment over the judgment of the High Court in Johannesburg to reinstate the Provincial Executive Committee. The court disbanded the Provincial Task Team headed by Premier Job Mokgoro. The SACP says
it supports the ANC National Executive Committee’s decision to appeal the
judgment. One of the
alliance partners, Cosatu has welcomed the court’s decision while Sanco and the
SACP are against it. Cosatu’s
Provincial Secretary Job Dliso is calling for the NEC to bring stability to the
North-West. Following the removal of Supra Mahumapelo as the North West Premier in 2018- the structures of the ANC dissolved the Provincial Executive Committee. At the time of the removal of Mahumapelo as the party’s Provincial Chairperson some ANC members accused him of sidelining them, especially those who were not agreeing with him. SACP Provincial Secretary Madoda Samabatha says, “It is politically surprising that when the dissolution come their way they go to court yet they have dissolved regions. They know that no region went to court, because of his instruction that nobody must contest the ANC in court.  Supra is the ANC in the province and there is nobody else who is the ANC except him.” Sanco in the
North West says Mahumapelo made a big mistake by appointing EFF’s Dali Mpofu as
this will expose the ANC ahead of the coming elections. Sanco Provincial Secretary Packet Seaketso says, “We are highly disappointed again that (the person) who was representing the members of the ANC, who were not happy, is the National Chair of the EFF. Now, it means the EFF is having more armament towards the elections to make sure that they would expose the ANC in terms of what is happening around ANC; what are the loopholes in the ANC.” The ANC says
the decision to dissolve the PEC then was motivated by the need to bring
political stability to the province, which had been marred by infighting and
violent protests. Political
Analyst from the North West University Dr Oshupeng Maseng says the NEC must try
by all means to unite all factions, particularly ahead of the national
elections. “The best way
to manage such factions, specifically like the province of the North West, is
to try to accommodate all this factions into various leadership positions in
order to appease these factions. The challenge is that when you have one
faction dominating over the other, it will then be met with reaction from the
other faction.” The outcome of the application for leave to appeal is yet to be determined, but the term of the Provincial Executive Committee will end two weeks’ time.