US President Donald Trump said Thursday he was in “no rush” to secure a deal over Pyongyang’s nuclear programme, playing down expectations of an immediate breakthrough in high-stakes talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. The two men who once traded personal insults and threats of destruction were holding their second meeting in eight months, with analysts stressing it needs to produce more concrete progress than their initial historic get-together in Singapore. The Singapore summit resulted in cosy images but only a vague commitment from Kim to “work toward complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula”. Diplomacy has since stalled amid disagreements on what that actually means. As they sat down for Thursday’s formal discussions in Hanoi, Trump said he was in “no rush” to seal a deal and that “speed was not that important” to him as long as the North’s pause in missile and nuclear testing continued. “I can’t speak necessarily for today, but I can say that this, a little bit longer-term, and over a period of time, I know we’re going to have a fantastic success with respect to Chairperson Kim and North Korea,” said Trump. Trump again touted the possibility of the impoverished North Korea becoming an “economic powerhouse” if it gave up its nuclear arsenal – an outcome analysts say is extremely unlikely. Kim is looking for relief from sanctions imposed on the North because of its weapons programmes, which saw tensions soar in 2017 before a wave of detente. The Pyongyang strongman said there were “people who hold a sceptical view of our meeting” but pledged to seek “great, ultimately good results”. “I think watching us have a great time will be like watching a scene from a fantasy movie,” he added. The North maintains total control over every aspect of Kim’s domestic appearances but he even answered a shouted question from a foreign reporter believed to be unprecedented saying he was “not pessimistic” about the outcome. The state-run Rodong Sinmun newspapers plastered photographs of their first Hanoi handshake on Wednesday over its front page, one of them appearing to show Trump bowing slightly as he took Kim’s hand. Trump had already tempered expectations in the run-up to the Hanoi summit, saying he was content if North Korea continued its pause in nuclear and missile testing. In Vietnam, Trump has frequently pointed to the recent history of the host country once a war-torn foe of the United States, now enjoying an economic boom with growth of more than seven percent. Ahead of the talks, he hailed Kim as a “friend” and said North Korea could enjoy an “AWESOME” future if it gave up its nuclear weapons.