The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) says they have agreed to continue engaging with diplomats from Switzerland, United Kingdom, Germany, The Netherlands and United States of America over their concerns about South Africa. Dirco met with diplomats of all five countries earlier today, following reports of a letter that was written to President Cyril Ramaphosa calling for those implicated in graft to be held accountable. During the meeting the heads of the five diplomatic missions clarified that their concerns about corruption formed part of a discussion paper to the Presidency about how the country can attract more investment. Dirco spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya explains, “Indeed they represent a number of investors. The issues they are raising are important and they are being attended to. With the benefit of hindsight, we all agreed that following the necessary international protocol would have avoided what happened yesterday with a front page article and the stress that followed after that. “The minister will also be meeting after the SONA with the other ambassadors. Yes the issues of visas was raised they also indicated other issues around the rule of law, issues of governance and we emphasised the action that is being taken by our President and by our cabinet. And we agreed that we will continue to engage and for them to monitor what is happening in the country but we are dealing with them.”  Misunderstanding The Sunday Times reported that the five had written a letter to the President calling for those implicated in graft to be held accountable. Based on the report the International Relations Department expressed its displeasure through a diplomatic démarche leading to a meeting between Pretoria and the Western Countries on Monday during which the five diplomatic mission heads expressed their regret at the misunderstanding. Earlier, the International Relations Department said it appreciated the concerns that the countries had raised about corruption in South Africa but added that established diplomatic protocol should have been followed. Mabaya explains, “They are welcome to be concerned about corruption. They are welcome to be concerned about any other issue that has been raised by investors but all we are saying is that there is protocol. They write also to other departments, to other ministers. They write to a number organisation. These are issues that have been raised by our own organisations in South Africa, Business Unity, labour and non-governmental organisations. We all know that the South African government is attending to all of them.” Cosatu’s reaction Meanwhile labour federation, Cosatu, has slammed the five Western countries that have written to President Cyril Ramaphosa, warning that investors would stay away if the country is not tough on corruption. Cosatu General Secretary  Bheki Ntshalintshali says the federation supports the message, but does not agree with the Western countries’ behaviour. “NPA, because it is also corrupted or captured one way or another, they have not been able to move. They must move fast to deal with those issues. But we condemn the western countries. Like, ‘oh South Africa owes so much money.’ We need so much money, so they must dictate … they must tell the president what to do. That will be bordering on them indirectly governing. So, the president becomes their mouthpiece in such issues,” says Ntshalintshali. 