 Zimbabwe’s main opposition on Wednesday snubbed talks with President Emmerson Mnangagwa meant to try resolve a political and economic crisis, saying any dialogue with the president must be brokered by an independent outside mediator. Mnangagwa, who is under pressure over the deteriorating
economy and a crackdown on anti-government protests last month, invited 23
opposition leaders to a meeting to draw up terms for national dialogue. The Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), said it would take part in the talks only if they were held under the supervision of the United Nations, African Union or regional bloc Southern African Development Community. “The MDC’s position is that the dialogue process must be
convened by an independent mediator and not one of the disputants,” the
MDC said in a letter responding to Mnangagwa’s invitation to the talks. The MDC has said Zimbabwe’s problems stemmed from last
year’s presidential vote. Mnangagwa won but MDC accused his side of rigging the
results, which he denies. Joice Mujuru, an opposition leader and former vice president
to Robert Mugabe, also did not attend the meeting although other smaller
parties met Mnangagwa at state house offices in Harare. In a speech before the talks, Mnangagwa said his opponents
should accept his election win, and he urged them to call forthe removal of U.S.
sanctions on ruling party and government officials. “Peace can never be imposed from outside but must issue
from within our own society,” Mnangagwa said, in an apparent reference to
the MDC demand for an outside mediator. Zimbabwe has held disputed elections since 2000, which
coincided with an economic recession, but in 2009 the ruling ZANU-PF party and
the MDC formed a unity government, which ushered economic and political
stability. Last July’s vote, the first since Mugabe was forced to resign
after a coup in 2017, was seen as an opportunity to pull Zimbabwe out of its
diplomatic isolation and prompting an economic recovery. Instead, the vote left
the nation polarised. Rights groups and witnesses say armed men in police and army
uniform have continued to make night raids at homes of opposition activists
where they beat up occupants, a charge denied by security forces. A video surfaced this week of a soldier beating women at a
house in a Harare township while another man held a pistol and frogmarched
three young men. Army’s Major General Nyikayaramba told reporters that the
army used proportionate force against protesters and that no one had reported
rights abuses against the military. The Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO forum said on Wednesday that17
people had died since the mid-January protests although police still insist
three people were killed. In Harare, a strike for better pay by public sector teachers
entered its second day as some stayed at home while others attended school but
did not teach, with unions accusing security agents of intimidation.