US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Wednesday he
hopes for “productive” trade meetings in China this week, as the two
countries seek to hammer out an agreement amid a festering dispute that has
seen both level tariffs at each other. US tariffs on $200 billion worth of imports from China are scheduled
to rise to 25% from 10% if the two sides cannot reach a deal by a March 1
deadline, increasing pain and costs in sectors from consumer electronics to
agriculture. Mnuchin, asked by reporters as he left his Beijing hotel what
his hopes were for the visit, said “productive meetings”. He did not
elaborate. Mnuchin, along with US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer,
arrived in the Chinese capital on Tuesday. US President Donald Trump said on Tuesday that he could let
the deadline for a trade agreement “slide for a little while,” but
that he would prefer not to and expects to meet with Chinese President Xi
Jinping to close the deal at some point. Trump’s advisers have previously described March 1 as a “hard
deadline,” but Trump told reporters for the first time that a delay was
now possible. A growing number of US businesses and lawmakers have expressed
hopes for a delay in the tariff increase while the two sides tackle the
difficult US demands for major structural policy changes by China aimed at
ending the forced transfer of American trade secrets, curbing Beijing’s
industrial subsidies and enforcing intellectual property rights. Trump said last week he did not plan to meet with Xi before the
March 1 deadline. Mnuchin and Lighthizer are scheduled to hold talks on Thursday
and Friday with Vice Premier Liu He, the top economic adviser to Xi. The latest round of talks in Beijing kicked off on Monday with
discussions among deputy-level officials to try to work out technical details,
including a mechanism for enforcing any trade agreement. A round of talks at the end of January ended with some progress
reported, but no deal and US declarations that much more work was needed. China and the United States, the world’s two largest economies,
have a series of other disagreements too, including over Chinese telecoms giant
Huawei Technologies. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo cautioned allies on Monday
against deploying equipment from Chinese telecoms giant Huawei on their soil,
saying it would make it more difficult for Washington to “partner
alongside them”. The United States and its Western allies believe Huawei’s apparatus
could be used for espionage, and see its expansion into central Europe as a way
to gain a foothold in the European Union market. Both the Chinese government and Huawei have dismissed these concerns.