Tshwane Municipality has pulled the plug on its controversial multi-million rand tender deal with Glad Africa. The engineering company was appointed in 2017 to assist the city in rolling out infrastructure programmes. Tshwane Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa says the agreement was terminated by mutual consent. “The contract with Glad Africa will be terminated by mutual consent; there is no need to proceed for a judicial review of the tender and utilise funds for any legal costs.” The city has forked out almost R496 million for the Glad Africa contract since its inception. Following months of bickering between former Mayor Solly Msimanga and City Manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola, the Auditor-General released a report confirming that the contract was entered into irregularly. Mokgalapa says that the contract was terminated as it was said to be irregular. “In light of the AG saying to the city this contract is irregular, this is what happened and this is the remedial steps that you need to follow through. This is the essence of where we are now and what we’re doing.” However, the opposition describes it as ludicrous. Lesego Makhubela from the Tshwane African National Congress (ANC) says that former Mayor Msimanga was implicated by the AG for being responsible and liable for the awarding of the contract to Glad Africa. “Firstly, the former mayor has been implicated by the AG to say that he’s responsible and liable for what happened in terms of the awarding of the contract; that he was actually part of the decision making of the awarding of the contract, that he slept on duty. Instead of doing that, the DA has promoted him; they’re saying that he must do to the people of Gauteng what he’s been doing to Tshwane. That’s where the party of Mr Mokgalapa should start by saying; if ever we want to act on the AG’s report, you cannot be presenting such a compromised person as Solly Msimanga as your premier candidate.” Meanwhile, Glad Africa’s operations in the city will cease at the end of June. Mokgalapa says he’ll establish the Financial Misconduct Board that will ensure that officials responsible are dealt with. 