The leaders of NATO’s 29 countries will gather in London in December for a
special meeting to mark the alliance’s 70th anniversary, Secretary General Jens
Stoltenberg announced Wednesday. Stoltenberg tweeted that the British capital was “the ideal
setting to mark 70 years of transatlantic military cooperation, as the home of
NATO’s first HQ back in 1949”. Britain is due to leave the European Union on March 29 and the December
meeting will be seen as a signal of solidarity between NATO and the UK — which
is the continent’s leading military power, along with France. “Brexit will change the United Kingdom’s relationship to the European
Union but it will not change the United Kingdom’s relationship to NATO,”
Stoltenberg said. “For me it’s perfectly natural that the UK is hosting the leaders’
meeting.” NATO chiefs will be hoping to avoid the high drama of last year’s summit in
Brussels, when US President Donald Trump launched a blistering attack on
allies, in particular Germany, for not spending enough on defence. There had been talk of holding the leaders’ meeting in Washington — where
NATO’s founding treaty was signed — but, amid fears of a new transatlantic bust-up,
foreign ministers will gather in the US capital in April instead. Estonia also offered to host the December meeting. “The meeting in London will be an opportunity for Allied heads of state
and government to address the security challenges we face now and in the
future, and to ensure that NATO continues to adapt in order to keep its
population of almost one billion people safe,” Stoltenberg said in a
statement. Though it will gather the alliance’s top leaders for talks, the meeting will
not have the formal status of a summit. NATO summits are usually held every two years and conclude with a formal,
binding statement of aims and actions agreed by all allies — such as the 2014
agreement to try to spend two percent of GDP on defence. It is yet to be confirmed whether a statement will be issued at December’s
meeting, but one was not given at the last such gathering in Brussels in 2017. British Prime Minister Theresa May welcomed the announcement. “December’s meeting is an important opportunity to determine the steps
we must now take to modernise the Alliance and ensure its continued
success,” May said in a statement. The anniversary comes at a delicate time for NATO. Tensions with Russia are
at a high not seen since the Cold War. Concerns linger about Trump’s commitment
to the alliance and his willingness to honour its mutual self-defence pact. From the US side, Trump has been unstinting in his criticism of NATO’s
European members, accusing them of freeloading on the protection offered by the
US military while not spending enough on their own armed forces. Before taking office Trump called NATO “obsolete” and soon after
July’s tumultuous summit he questioned whether the US would honour the
alliance’s founding principle of mutual defence for newest member Montenegro. The doubts over America’s commitment to defend Europe come as a landmark
Cold War arms treaty crumbles, prompting fears of a new arms race on the
continent. The US last week began the process of exiting the Intermediate-Range Nuclear
Forces (INF) Treaty, saying that Russia has been violating the pact through a
new missile system for years. In his State of the Union address on Tuesday, Trump vowed to outspend Russia
on new missiles unless a new global arms treaty could be agreed.