Several thousand people rallied in front of Riga City Hall on Saturday in support of Nils Usakovs, the city’s mayor and leader of the popular pro-Kremlin Harmony party, who is under investigation for corruption. Usakovs faces a confidence vote at city hall next Tuesday after a probe into
kickbacks on bus and tram contracts for Riga public transport turned up
evidence of graft. The mostly elderly Russian speaking protesters touted placards saying
“Hands off our Mayor Usakovs”, “We’re here for Nils!”,
“Don’t touch the Riga City Council”. Usakovs, speaking in Latvian and his native Russian, denied any wrongdoing. At the national level, his popular Harmony party is backed mainly by ethnic
Russians who make up about a quarter of Latvia’s population of 1.9
million. It topped October’s general election, but was unable to find a coalition
partner among mainly ethnic Latvian parties and has been relegated to the
opposition. Usakovs was briefly detained and searched in January in an ongoing
corruption probe into bus and tram purchase contracts for city-owned public
transportation company Rigas Satiksme. In December six high-profile suspects, including Rigas Satiksme CEO Leons
Bemhens and Maris Martinsons, one of the richest businesspeople in Latvia, were
arrested in the probe. They remain in pre-trial custody as anti-corruption investigators probe
kickback schemes involving tram and bus deliveries from Poland and the Czech
Republic to Rigas Satiksme. According to the Polish Anti-Corruption Bureau (CBA), the kickback amount
was at least 800,000 euros ($905,000), while TV3 Latvija later reported that
bribes accounted for five to seven percent of the deal’s value. Protesters rallying for Usakovs on Saturday appeared to be oblivious to the
allegations of graft that have engulfed city hall. “I support Usakovs just because he is Russian, and Vladimir Putin is
also Russian,” one elderly protester who asked not be identified told
AFP. The gathering was supported by the Latvian Union of Russians, a local
Putinist party, but was notably not supported by Honour to Serve Riga, a
regional party which forms a majority with Harmony in the 60-seat Riga City
Council.