US budget talks have hit another impasse over immigration, a key Republican
negotiator said Sunday, raising the prospect of a second government shutdown if
no agreement is reached by this week’s deadline. “I think the talks are stalled right now,” Richard Shelby, the
chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said on Fox News Sunday. The deadline for an agreement on funding to keep the government open is
Friday, raising the specter of a repeat of the 35-day partial shutdown that
ended January 25 — the longest in US history. Negotiators had been optimistic Friday an agreement would be reached that
includes some funds for a border “barrier,” although less than the
$5.6 billion US President Donald Trump has demanded. Shelby blamed Democrats for the latest snag, saying they wanted to cap the
number of beds at immigration detention centers. “Time is ticking away but we got some problems with the Democrats
dealing with ICE,” he said, referring to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Trump himself, who Monday hosts a rally of supporters on the Texas border at
El Paso, said Democratic negotiators were being hamstrung by their party
leadership. “They are offering very little money for the desperately needed Border
Wall & now, out of the blue, want a cap on convicted violent felons to be
held in detention!,” he tweeted. He went on to suggest Democrats were ready to let talks collapse to distract
from unfavorable headlines including a racism scandal engulfing the party leadership
in Virginia. “I actually believe they want a Shutdown. They want a new
subject!,” Trump said. Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat, expressed cautious optimism that a
government shutdown would be averted. “We need to keep our eyes on this but I’m very hopeful, not positive,
but very hopeful we can come to an agreement,” he said. White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, meanwhile, said a government
shutdown is “still technically on the table.” “There’s going to be a lot of different moving pieces so I’m not in a
position to say the president will absolutely sign or will not sign,” he
said. Trump “cannot sign everything they put in front of him, if there will
be some things that simply we couldn’t agree to,” he said.