Bio-conservation experts in the North West say wetlands and their prime ecosystems are at risk due to the growing impact of farming and urbanisation. This exposes the country to higher risk of climate-related hazards and natural disasters. Wetlands are prime aquatic ecosystems which contribute to biodiversity and the source of pristine water, but human interference and urban growth have left many wetlands under threat. Executive Director of the Marico Biosphere Reserve Daan Van Der Merwe says some wetlands are dying out due to misuse. “Some of the wetlands have been misused to the extent that they are dying away. Just next to this beautiful area in Ottoshoop, Molemane area, we also have the wetlands feeding the Barberspan Nature Reserve which is a Ramsar site, an international recognized wetland. Unfortunately due to human interference, the amount of water flowing into the Barberspan area, to keep the wetlands intact, is getting smaller and smaller by the day, which poses a danger that we can lose those wetlands forever.” While economic activities have the greatest impact on wetlands, some farmers have diversified their businesses to focus on conservation. Game farmer and water distributor Jack Rossouw says that it is important to prevent the contamination of wetlands. “Seeing that we are in one of the last pristine wetlands areas, it is important to prevent contamination of this area. By contamination we are looking at agricultural contamination as well as human contamination. If we get contamination, even if we have the ability to stop, the source will continue in the system for millions of years forward.” Meanwhile, in efforts to raise awareness around the protection of wetlands the national Department of Environmental Affairs is focused on inculcating wetlands protection in schools. Acting Chief Director at the Department of Environmental Affairs Barney Kgope says that they have been able to train a lot of people on the conservation of wetlands. “So we have mobilized schools in the North West and the Mpumalanga region for this year, as part of really starting at primary schools, to grow with this culture of recognising and knowing about wetlands. We have been able to train a lot of people, around 17 575 people and, through this programme, we were able to rehabilitate about 80 000 hectares of wetlands.” South Africa is home to over 20 designated wetlands of international importance. 