Beto O’Rourke, the former Democratic congressman considering
a White House run, blasted President Donald Trump’s fight for a border wall on
Monday as the two held dueling rallies in El Paso, Texas. O’Rourke, who narrowly lost a 2018 bid for a US Senate seat
in Texas, accused Trump of stoking “false fear” about immigrants and
telling “lies” about his hometown El Paso, which Trump said was a
dangerous place before it had a border fence. “Here is one of the safest cities in the United States
of America, safe not because of walls but in spite of walls,” O’Rourke
told a crowd of several thousand supporters, many waving “Beto 2020”
signs and wearing “Immigrants Make America Great” baseball caps. Trump is in El Paso to argue for a wall he says can protect Americans
from violent criminals, drugs and a “tremendous onslaught” of migrant
caravans. A sea of Trump supporters in red caps waited for the arrival
of the president at the El Paso County Coliseum under giant “Finish the
Wall banners.” The rally was due to be his first direct clash with a potential 2020 rival, albeit on separate stages in venues about 200 yards apart. The rallies coincide with talks in Washington to reach a border
security deal and avert another government shutdown. One of the negotiators, Republican Senator Richard Shelby, told
reporters late on Monday that an “agreement in principle” had been
reached but did not give any details. In his State of the Union speech, Trump said the border fence
separating El Paso from Mexico reduced the city’s high crime rate. El Paso’s Republican mayor, Dee Margo, said the city had been
safe for years before the wall was built. “We were, I think, the No. 2 or No. 3 safest city
before the fence went up and we progressed into No. 1,” he told Fox News. “We
were significantly low on crime to begin with and always have been.” O’Rourke told Oprah Winfrey last week he would make a final decision
about running for president by the end of the month. He declined to discuss a potential run on Monday. “I’m following
the community’s lead tonight, no less, no more,” he said on a conference
call with reporters.