The Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC) could find itself off the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) ballot paper if it doesn’t solve its internal leadership battles. The electoral commission has sent an ultimatum to the two warring
factions, led by Narius Moloto and Mzwanele Nyhontso ordering them to find an
urgent solution. The IEC will not recognise either of the factions until one
leadership is presented to the commission. The IEC has taken bold step of ordering the PAC to sort out
its political differences, ahead of the national elections. Internal battles date back to 2013, following the expulsion
of some party members including Letlapa Mphahlele and Luthando Mbinda. But, the IEC isn’t budging. IEC Chief Electoral Officer Sy Mamabolo says,”The
commission met with the two leadership groupings of the PAC and subsequent to
those engagements came to the conclusion that they are unable to defend who the
true leadership of the party is.  It is
now upon those groupings to decide how they want to clarify the matter for the
commission going forward.” Narius Moloto from PAC accuses the IEC of being aggressive
towards his faction and their fight is set to end up in the Constitutional
Court. “Clearly we need to approach the constitutional court
because it’s the highest court than the court orders we’ve heard. No any other
court has jurisdiction on matters that were there before, they’ve been examined
by other judges and the parties will remain the same,” says Moloto. Meanwhile, the other faction of the PAC says there’s no need
to approach the courts. But, will seek a compromise for the sake of unity. Mbuyiselo Gantsu from PAC says, “We don’t expect courts
to sort out PAC things – we can only go that route if only we don’t find other
solution, but that is the last resort we’ll opt for.” With just a few months to go before the national and provincial elections both factions are confident of a win this coming May. Watch related videos below for more on the story: