The ANC‘s Rapid Response Team is expected in the North West this weekend to meet the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) which was disbanded by the National Executive Committee (NEC) in 2018, and the Provincial Task Team (PTT). The meeting on Sunday follows a landmark ruling by the Johannesburg High Court that demanded the PEC be reinstated within two days. The Rapid Response Team is made up of
members of the NEC. University of the Free State’s Political Analyst, Sethulego Matebesi, says he does not foresee the provincial committee in North West assuming its duties, despite the court ruling. Matebesi believes the ANC will try to resolve this matter internally. He also does not foresee all the other decisions taken by the Provincial Task Team (PTT) in 2018, being reversed. “Only a couple of days are left for the reinstated or the former Provincial Executive Committee’s term to come to an end and I strongly believe that the ANC will try by all means to try and resolve this internally. I also foresee a situation where action will even be taken against Supra Mahumapelo because he has been one of the advocates who indicated in the past that an ANC member should never take the organisation to court.” Another political analyst Lesiba Tefo says the ANC has a choice of dealing with the matter either politically or through the courts. “For political reasons, I think they might reinstate them and I think it might be the appropriate thing to do right now simply because there isn’t enough time to be dilly dallying and playing around when the election day has already been set.  Either way, it would go but I think the political solution is the one that I think they might opt for.” The PTT, which was appointed following the disbanding of the PEC, says it will wait for the NEC delegation.  The PTT’s Spokesperson, Kabelo Mataboge, says the rapid response team will be meeting with them on Sunday. “We are advised that a team led by the Deputy President David Mabuza will be meeting with us on Sunday. So, we hope to find better clarity from that meeting.  Well, we don’t know how the meeting is going to be conducted; what we know is that they will be meeting with both the PEC and the PTT as to whether it will happen at the same time  or what methods will they opt for, we are not informed about it.” Efforts to get hold of Supra Mahumapelo, who was the Chairperson of the disbanded PEC, to hear his side of the matter were not successful. SABC News was referred to Suzan Dantjie, who was unavailable. WATCH RELATED VIDEO BELOW: