 Acting Pentagon chief Patrick Shanahan made an unannounced visit to
Afghanistan Monday, where he met with President Ashraf Ghani as the United
States leads a push for peace talks with the Taliban. The visit comes after Washington held major talks with Taliban officials in
Qatar last month that negotiators hope could herald a breakthrough in the
grinding 17-year conflict. US President Donald Trump is pushing to end US involvement in Afghanistan,
where 14,000 American troops are still deployed — raising Afghan fears that
Washington could exit before securing a lasting peace between the Taliban and
the Kabul government. Shanahan told reporters earlier that he had no instructions from Washington
to begin a withdrawal, however. “I have not been directed to step down our forces in Afghanistan,”
Shanahan said. “I think the presence we want in Afghanistan is what assures our
homeland defence and supports regional stability.” He said it was crucial Kabul, whose representatives were not at the talks in
Qatar, was involved in discussions over the future of Afghanistan. “The Afghans have to decide what Afghanistan looks like in the future.
It’s not about the US, it’s about Afghanistan,” Shanahan said. “The US has significant — significant — investment in ensuring
security, but the Afghans decide their future.” Shanahan met General Scott Miller, the top US and NATO commander in
Afghanistan, to discuss the situation on the ground before visiting Camp
Morehead where Americans train Afghan special forces. Later he sat down with Ghani, who has vented frustration at talks occurring
without him about the future of Afghanistan and warned against rushing into a
deal. “Both sides said that the peace process and the fight against terrorism
will continue, and the military and security alliance between Afghanistan and
US will continue until peace is achieved,” the president’s palace said in
a statement after Ghani’s meeting with Shanahan. Zalmay Khalilzad, the US special envoy leading the talks, has expressed hope
of finding a deal before Afghan presidential elections scheduled for July, but
has emphasised that any troop withdrawal would depend on conditions on the
ground. Khalilzad is set to lead a large delegation on a six-nation tour, including
Afghanistan, to boost the peace process and seek to bring all Afghan parties to
the table. The months-long push by the US to engage the Taliban has ostensibly been
aimed at convincing them to negotiate with Kabul, which the insurgents consider
a US puppet. Ghani spoke last week with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who also
stressed the importance of the Afghan government being at the centre of the
peace process. But the insurgents, who ruled Afghanistan from 1996-2001, have steadfastly
refused. Instead they met directly with US negotiators in Doha last month for peace
talks described by US President Donald Trump as “constructive”. The US is expected to commence a second round of talks with Taliban
officials on February 25 in Qatar, where they have their political office. The militants, who were toppled by US-led forces in 2001, last week held
separate talks in Moscow with a senior delegation of Afghan politicians —
including chief Ghani rivals. The two-day talks were the Taliban’s most significant engagement with Afghan
leaders in years, and saw former president Hamid Karzai, among others, dining
and praying with the insurgents — though without the involvement of the
government it was unclear what impact they will have. Ghani described the Moscow talks as “nothing more than fantasy”. The Taliban have outlined their vision for Afghanistan, proposing an “inclusive
Islamic system” of governance and demanding a new Islam-based constitution
for the country. Both parties released a statement at the conclusion of the talks promising
to advance negotiations at a later date. Shanahan was elevated from deputy defense secretary to the Pentagon’s top
spot January 1, after Jim Mattis quit amid long-running disagreements with
President Trump. His visit to Afghanistan comes as the United Nations said it was
investigating “credible” reports of Afghan civilian deaths and
injuries from an airstrike over the weekend in Helmand, a Taliban stronghold. The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) said late Sunday it would
share its findings once an inquiry into the “aerial operations” in
Sangin district was completed. The Taliban are responsible for about half of civilian casualties, with the
remaining deaths attributed to the Islamic State group and coalition strikes,
according to a UNAMA report. But airstrikes have stepped up and the UN has warned civilians continue to
pay a disproportionate price in the fighting. The US dropped 7,362 weapons during airstrikes in 2018 in Afghanistan —
approaching double the number of 2017, US Air Forces Central Command figures
show.