Ailing President Abdelaziz Bouteflika declared he will seek a fifth term in April elections in a message published by state media Sunday, after he was endorsed by his party and the ruling coalition. The 81-year-old head of state uses a wheelchair and has rarely been seen in
public since suffering a stroke in 2013. “Of course, I am no longer the same physical force as before —
something that I have never hidden from the people,” said Bouteflika,
according to the APS news agency, as he apparently broke his silence on his
intentions for the April 18 poll. “But the unwavering desire to serve… has never left me and it allows
me to transcend the constraints linked to health troubles which everyone may
one day face,” the president reportedly added. Known for wearing a three-piece suit even in the stifling heat, Bouteflika
gained respect from many for his role in ending Algeria’s decade-long civil
war, which official figures say killed nearly 200,000 people. He took advantage of the rise of the oil prices between 2004 and 2014 to
launch vast infrastructure programmes and pull Algeria out of debt. But the country’s hydrocarbon-dependent economy was hit hard by a drop in
crude prices during the president’s fourth term, and now nearly a third of
Algerians under 25 are unemployed. Bouteflika has also faced criticism from rights groups and opponents who
accuse him of being authoritarian. If re-elected, he would set up an “inclusive national conference”
to address “political, economic and social” issues and “propose
an enrichment of the constitution”, APS reported. This conference would be mandated to establish “a consensus on reforms
and changes” in Algeria, the president’s message said, but added that he
would be the one to act on conclusions. “A stronger presence of young people” inside political
institutions, economic reform and a scaling back of bureaucratic red tape would
be among the topics to be discussed at the conference. Former prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal — who ran the incumbent’s
successful presidential bids in 2004, 2009 and 2014 — has once again been
named campaign manager. The president has come up with “a strong and new plan” involving
economic and political reforms to enact for the benefit of Algerians, Sellal
told private TV network Ennahar. The country’s four-party ruling coalition — which includes the president’s
National Liberation Front (FLN) — backed Bouteflika earlier this month. The FLN designated the president as its candidate on Saturday, in an address
by party coordinator Mouad Bouchareb to thousands of people in the capital
Algiers. Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia has said Bouteflika’s health is not “an
obstacle” to performing presidential duties. His continued backing by the establishment makes him a firm favourite. Retired general Ali Ghediri, 64, was the first to announce his candidacy
after the presidency set the election date. Algeria’s main Islamist party, the Movement for the Society of Peace, will
also take part, backing its candidate Abderrazak Makri. It has said Bouteflika would be unable to handle the demands of another term
in office because of his poor health. The country’s oldest opposition party, the Front of Socialist Forces,
announced last month that it would not field a candidate and called for an
“active, intensive and peaceful boycott”. In early 2016, he dissolved the all-powerful DRS intelligence agency after
dismissing its leader General Mohamed Mediene, known as “Toufik”, who
had clung to the post for a quarter of a century. Presidential candidates have until March 3 at midnight (2300 GMT) to submit
their applications. For the last presidential election in 2014, Bouteflika had only declared his
intention to run a few days ahead of the deadline.