The Durban University of Technology has been closed until further notice after a 20 year old student died after being shot during student protests at the institution’s Steve Biko campus. It is alleged that security officers opened fire on students after a scuffle broke out between students who wanted to enter a building and campus protection services. The university’s spokesperson Alan Khan says there will be an investigation to determine why live ammunition was used. “Sadly we can confirm that there was a tragic incident just outside of the Steve Biko campus this afternoon which resulted in the loss of life of one of our students. Our Dean of Students is busy trying to contact the deceased family to advise the next of kin; and it’s now a matter of a police investigation as to what happened. “We are also aware if allegations and an investigation will also take place with our security team. The management team is aware and will be dealing with the matter with the seriousness that it deserves. Management at the University have taken the decision to close the university until further notice,” Khan explained. KwaZulu-Natal Police spokesperson Thembeka Mbele says four suspects have been arrested. There is a “student, a 20-year-old student that is confirmed to have died but for now we are busy with investigations, so we cannot confirm as to who shot. But I can confirm that there was an attack by these students to the security people that are working there. A security guard was injured and another lady who’s an admin assistant was injured and four suspects have been arrested.” Urgent meeting to resolve crisis at tertiary institutions KwaZulu-Natal Acting Premier Sihle Zikalala is convening a task team of MECs to initiate talks in an attempt to resolve the current crisis at tertiary institutions in the province. Zikalala says violence will achieve nothing. “It is shocking that when students embark on a demonstration, they then embark on violent protest. If we burn cars and we burn the building, that undermines even the genuine grievances that we want to put forward. We want to call on police to be decisive on those who commit any acts of criminality. There is nothing that will be solved through arrogance. As the government of KZN, we are also exploring ways of convening an urgent meeting to look on all of these issues and try to have a solution.” Watch Video Below:  