A new study reveals that South African township learners struggle with science because of poor reading and comprehension skills. The research was published in the South African
Science Journal this month. Angela Stott, Chief Officer of the School
Partnership Project at the University of the Free State ran winter schools and
extra science classes for township high school learners for years. However she noticed that her intervention was not benefiting the majority of learners. Stott then embarked on research to find out why this was the case. During the study, eye movement and mouse-click data were collected from 65 Grade 8 and 9 township learners as they read texts and answered electronic quizzes about electric circuits and lightning on a computer fitted with eye-tracking software. Stott says the research revealed that the ability to
read science text in English with comprehension is a strong predictor of what
marks the learners will get for science. She says, “A very
large number of my strong sample were unable to read just text with
comprehension, so they were what we can call reading at a frustration level,
which means that its very unlikely that they will choose to read text
themselves and so that is very concerning and it supports research that has
been done in South Africa.” Stott says
approximately 80% of the country’s learners who attend rural and township
schools rank low in international tests for reading comprehension, as well as
science knowledge. “It is very well
known that reading is a very big problem among South African learners and it
stresses the importance of focusing on reading in the lower grade, the
foundation phase and in the intermediate phase, getting learners to read for
pleasure because only then will they develop skills that they need so that
later when they are in the senior phase or the FET phase they can read for
example science text with comprehension,” She adds. Educational Expert,
Prof, Mary Metcalfe agrees with the findings. She says it is well established in
literature that performance in many subjects is linked to confidence in the
language of instruction. Metcalfe says, “So if learners
often struggle in maths and there is lots of evidence for that, they struggle
in science and other subjects not because the scientific or mathematical
concepts are necessarily on their own the problem but the access to those
concepts through a language with which learners are not familiar and therefore
difficulties with vocabulary and difficulties with comprehension.” She says there is an
abrupt transition for pupils because they have to learn their home language and
the switch to their first additional language in Grade 4. “We have a massive decline in the quality of
learning from Grade 4 because we are not transitioning to a language that
children are comfortable in learning in way that is sensitive to the children’s
needs,” Metcalfe adds/ Meanwhile, Basic
Education Department Spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga says they have established a
maths and science office which is headed by the chief director in the
curriculum branch. He says, “The things that they have done was to put
in place a whole lot of measures to make sure that all our schools offer maths
and science, those that do not have bring teachers, where there are no
teachers, we work with TeachSA to send those teachers to our schools to try
close that gap of teacher shortages in the subject.” Mhlanga says their
study shows that the reading ability of learners is improving. “We also have done an early grade reading study, if you can check the first study it shows that they are making improvements in terms of the reading ability of our learners,” he adds. The department has reprioritised over
a billion rand to make sure that resources are directed to maths, science and
technology.