Political analyst, Somadoda Fikeni, says the new National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP), Advocate Shamila Batohi, may face pressure to act swiftly against those who have been implicated at the current commissions of inquiry. Batohi will officially take up her position as the new NDPP on Friday. She was appointed in December by President Cyril Ramaphosa and is the first woman to lead the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). She is the former director of public prosecutions in KwaZulu-Natal and senior legal adviser at the International Criminal Court. During her interview for the position, she likened taking up the NDPP position to jumping into a shark tank. “I think that Advocate Batohi will face the pressure of a position that no one has ever finished a term since the end of apartheid. More importantly is the fact that some of the senior members of the NPA are implicated in commissions of inquiry. So she may worry about some of the people within the organisation who may not be team players. And lastly is how other organs, which feed into the NPA – such as the HAWKS, SIU and the police – will do their work so that the NPA is able to act,” says Fikeni. Watch a related video below:   The NDPPs over the years: NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY BOSSES SINCE 1998 Shamila Batohi takes office as new National Director of Public Prosecutions. We look back at her predecessors, tracking the appointments, controversies, and dismissals of the National Director of Public Prosecutions over the past 20 years of the NPA’s existence. December 2017 a court finds that he was irregularly appointed. Controversy: His decision to prosecute Jacob Zuma for corruption. 2008 suspended by President Mbeki, later fired by Mbeki's successor, Kgalema Motlanthe. Nomgcobo Jiba (Acting from 2010) Controvery: Abrahams seen as complicit in helping President Zuma avoid corruption charges. Appointed to NDPP raised questions  about his promotion ahead of more senior prosecutors. First National Director of Public Prosecutions in SA, and husband of former Deputy President Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka. Vusi Pikoli (2005 – ﻿2007) Initiated criminal charges against disgraced SA Police Commissioner, Jackie Selebi, and ANC President Jacob Zuma. Controversy: Withdrew charges against Jacob Zuma in 2009 based on the recordings of infamous “spy tapes”, presented to Mpshe by Zuma’s legal team. 2018 post Shaun Abrahams Controversy: The Constitutional Court of South Africa, in October 2012, found that Simelane's appointment was invalid. Controversy: In September 2016 she was struck off the roll of South African advocates for her role in a number of politically related cases. Appointed Deputy NDPP in 2010 and then made acting NDPP whilst her predecessor, Menzi Simelane, was placed on special leave. Nxasana agreed to step down from his position as NDPP, ﻿effective from the 1st of June 2015. 2017 court rules Nxasana's termination invalid, and must repay R17m payment he received on leaving the post. 2015 post Mxolisi Nxasana Silas Ramaite (Acting NDPP) Controversy: 2011 drunk driving arrest but charges later withdrawn. 2009 to 2018: Serves as senior legal advisor to prosecutor at the International Criminal Court. 4 December 2018: Appointed NDPP by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Bulelani Ngcuka (1998 - 2004) Mokotedi Mpshe (Acting - till 2009) Menzi Simelane (2009 – 2012) Appointed by newly elected President Jacob Zuma. Frene Ginwala, who lead inquiry into Vusi Pikoli's fitness for office, had strong criticisms for Simelane. Mxolisi Nxasana (2013 - 2015) Appointed after a protracted enquiry into his fitness to hold office. Shaun Abrahams (2015 - 2018) Shamila Batohi (Dec ﻿2018 - Present) 2000 - King Commission of Inquiry: Batohi led prosecution of Proteas cricket captain Hansie Cronje. TIMELINE (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));