The New Head of Public Prosecutions advocate Shamila Batohi has commended the media and civil society for their role in exposing the state capture saga. Speaking on her first day at work after been introduced to the media by Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha, Batohi says it is the tireless effort of ordinary South Africans that has forced government to constitute the State Capture Commission led by Deputy Chief justice Raymond Zondo. She says without underestimating the challenges that lie ahead, she is confident it will succeed in carrying out its mandate. “I personally thank those of you in the media, civil society and the State who have courageously and tirelessly led efforts to expose the nature of corruption and forced government hand. You have brought us back from the edge of a state capture curve. We will now take it from here as the NPA. I need to connect with prosecutors throughout the country to understand their needs and priorities. While at the same time delivering on priorities issues that needs action now,” says Batohi.  Positive change in NPA Batohi says positive change in the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will happen notwithstanding the damaging revelations coming out of both the Zondo Commission and Mokgoro Enquiry. Batohi has also sent a strong warning to the NPA staff about below par standards. She says the new NPA under her watch is going to be the home for committed and hard working people free of corruption. Batohi was speaking yesterday on her first day at work after been introduced to the media by Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha. “Members of the NPA who are unwilling to work as professional with integrity do not have the future in the organisation. Prosecutirs are not for sale. That, said I have no doubt that thde majority of prosecutirs in the NPA are hard working and dedicated and committed persons. Sworking in a criminal justice system under ememnce pressure from various reasons I have no doubt that all of them will share in this vision.”   