Several non-governmental organisations in Mozambique on Saturday called on
Credit Suisse to write off debt their government contracted with the Swiss bank
as part of a massive “hidden debt” scandal. In a letter addressed to Credit Suisse CEO Tidjane Thiam seen by AFP, 21
civil society groups said the scandal over allegedly illegal loans totalling $2
billion was “a direct result of fraudulent illegal collusion between
Credit Suisse, contractors and Mozambican government officials”. The letter was co-signed by Graca Machel, a humanitarian activist and widow
of Nelson Mandela. “Having considered all available information in our possession, we
demand that Credit Suisse publicly declares that the Mozambican people should
not pay a single cent of these debts, and that recovery of any money should
come from the companies and individuals who, instead, have benefited from this
chaos,” the letter said. The call came only days after Mozambique President Filipe Nyusi sacked
deputy finance minister Isaltina Lucas who has been implicated in the widening
scandal. AS national treasury director she signed guarantees in 2013 and 2014 for the
loans to three state-owned security companies. An independent audit has found that $500 million of the loans, which were
deliberately hidden from the country’s parliament as well as international
donors, was diverted and remains unaccounted for. When the hidden debt was revealed, Mozambique — which relies on donor aid
and is one of the world’s poorest countries — was plunged into the worst
financial crisis in its history. The US alleges that at least $200 million was spent on bribes and kickbacks,
including $12 million for former finance minister Manuel Chang, who also signed
off on the debt guarantees. Chang was arrested in South Africa in December on a US extradition request
for his alleged involvement in the loans. The US has alleged that Chang received the $12 million to agree to sign loan
deals for supposed financing for a tuna-fishing fleet and a maritime
surveillance project. Chang is facing extradition requests from both US and Mozambican authorities
on suspicion of financial misconduct. Court hearings are to resume in South
Africa on February 26. Seven suspects including Mozambicans and ex-Credit Suisse bankers are
accused by the US of fraud, conspiracy to financial security fraud, conspiracy
to launder money.