Senegal votes Sunday in an election that incumbent President Macky Sall looks confident to win in the first round after his main challengers were banned from running in the West African country’s ballot. His two biggest rivals — popular former Dakar mayor Khalifa Sall and Karim Wade, the son of the previous president — were disqualified after corruption convictions in trials questioned by rights groups. Sall, a former geologist who first took the presidency in 2012 after beating his former political mentor Wade, has campaigned for a second term pitching his “Emerging Senegal” infrastructure project to boost economic growth. “Victory in the first round is indisputable,” Sall told a recent Dakar campaign rally. Often held up as a model of stability in Africa, Senegal has enjoyed strong growth. The Muslim-majority country has largely escaped the jihadist attacks that destabilised neighbours like Mali. Sall made infrastructure a priority, including a new airport, motorways and a rail link. But basic services, healthcare and education often remain inadequate, sometimes triggering strikes and protests. Sall faces competition from four lesser-known rivals who campaigned hard against his plans for a second phase of his project, which critics see as a waste of taxpayers’ money and a potential debt burden. His rivals are former prime minister Idrissa Seck, Issa Sall of the Unity and Assembly Party (PUR), former justice and foreign minister Madicke Niang and tax inspector-turned MP Ousman Sonko. The five-horse race leaves voters with a limited choice compared to 2012 when 14 candidates vied for the top post, and 2007 when 15 battled it out for the presidency. Preliminary results are expected soon after polling closes at 1800 GMT on Sunday, but will only become official a day or two later. Some 6.7 million people in a population of around 16 million are registered to vote. A candidate must get more than 50 percent of the votes cast to prevent a second-round runoff. If no one wins more than half the ballots on Sunday, a second vote is provisionally scheduled for March 24. The exact timing will be determined by how long it takes to officially proclaim the first-round results, and whether there is a challenge. A new system approved by parliament last year despite opposition party challenges requires candidates to demonstrate they have the support of a minimum number of citizens and regions. Once the new regulations were applied, only seven candidates made the cut, two of whom were then disqualified. Both Khalifa Sall and Karim Wade have claimed their criminal convictions were engineered to rule them out of the race. Supporters of the convicted men staged demonstrations, while rights group Amnesty International spotlighted “unfair trials” in Senegal, and a “lack of independence” by the judiciary in Khalifa Sall’s case. Senegal has known two peaceful power transfers in 2000 and 2012, and no coup d’etat. But election campaigns are often marred by charges of corruption, disinformation and sometimes violence. Recent clashes between supporters of rival parties left two dead at Tambacounda, about 420 kilometres (260 miles) east of the capital. Authorities also reinforced security and laws, sometimes at the cost of freedom, according to rights groups. Opposition rallies have recently been banned and pre-trial detention for people suspected of “terrorism” extended from 48 hours to 12 days.