The challenges facing the ANC in the North West, seems to be deepening as both the recently reinstated Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) and the Provincial Task Team (PTT), seem to be claiming legitimacy in running the affairs of the party in the province. The PTT which was appointed by the party’s national leadership in 2018, says they remains fully operational and in charge of the province. On the other hand the PEC, led by Supra Mahumapelo, says is still in office. For the second time in a week, the High Court in Pretoria ruled in favour of Mahumapelo. This is after court ruled that he and the rest of the PEC members be reinstated. Mahumapelo and the PEC took the ANC to court after he was ousted as provincial party chairperson and the PEC was disbanded in 2018. On Wednesday, the reinstated PEC led by Mahumapelo, held a special meeting in Mahikeng where they discussed, amongst others, a plan to of ensure that the party wins the coming general elections. Gerald Modise, ANC Provincial Spokesperson, says that the PEC is still in office as confirmed by the South Gauteng High Court. “The PEC which was elected in 2015, is still in office and it was confirmed by South Gauteng High Court last week on the 6th. Even today at the North Gauteng High Court, the judge enforced on that particular order to say the PEC is reinstated it must proceed in preparing for the elections and in preparing for the next conference after the elections based on the letter that was circulated by the Secretary General last year, which indicated that all provincial and regional conferences will be held after the elections.” On the other hand the PTT members, held their own meeting just a few kilometres away from where Mahumapelo and his committee converged. They too discussed amongst others the programme for the elections. Kabelo Mataboge, Spokesperson for the PTT, says that, as far as they are concerned, the PTT remains fully functional until indicated otherwise by the NEC. “In as far we know, the PTT remains fully functional until directed by the NEC or otherwise. If you can recall, the judgement says the NEC must reinstate and therefore we will await the outcome of the National Executive Committee. The PTT was appointed by the NEC and that’s the final decision making body. We urge our structures to remain focus as we are focus. It is business as usual we are doing our primary focus as the PTT is to deliver a decisive victory of the ANC.” Meanwhile ANC alliance partners in the province have raised their concerns regarding the state of affairs. Cosatu Provincial Chairperson, Solly Lekhu, says that the ANC is in a crisis. “The ANC is in crises, the ANC is in trouble unless something drastic and very quickly is done to help the situation. I am afraid that we are just facing a down spiral.” SACP Provincial Secretary, Madoda Sambatha, says that the PEC is trying to destabilise the ANC. “So is not for the first time they try to destabilise the African National Congress as a movement in an electoral platform. That is why 70% of their songs are about themselves and nothing about the African National Congress.” SANCO Provincial Secretary, Packet Seaketso, says that they are very disappointed. “We are highly disappointed, but at the centre of all this things is the secretary general of the ANC Comrade Ace Magashule. In our view, he enjoys confusion of the North West because he is highly conflicted.” Both the PEC members and the PTT are expected to meet with the party national leadership at Luthuli House to further discuss the impasse within the province. WATCH VIDEO BELOW: 