The State of the Nation Address (SONA) is expected to focus on a number of issues including land, corruption, investment and economic growth. President Cyril Ramaphosa will present his second Sona on Thursday evening at seven o’clock. Economists say the President is likely to maintain the theme of his party, the African National Congress’ election campaign which is aimed to attracting foreign investment and getting domestic companies to start to invest again. President Ramaphosa is expected to outline
some of the progress made since taking office last year. His list of main
achievements includes measures taken to stabilise management at Eskom coupled
with investment and the job summit. The conclusion of the Mining Charter
will also add some silver lining to Ramaphosa’s months at the helm of the
country. The President is likely to update the nation on his package of
measures put together to stimulate the economy. “There will be references to various initiatives that the President is looking into through his infrastructure commission, throught different policies to get investment. But the level of details in Sona can be limited,” says Economist at PNB Paribas, Jeff Schultz. On the other hand, many challenges
that the country is facing could take a lion’s share of the President’s speech.
It is widely expected that Ramaphosa will continue with his attempts to calm
the nerves of most land owners and investors on the land question. But it is unlikely that the
President’s on-going balancing act will not immediately take away the fear
among many commercial farmers who are land owners. However, emerging black
farmers want the President to move fast on the land issue. “The issue of land reform is still top of our
list, a lot our people are still don’t have land – the president must address this
issue,” says National Emergent Red Meat Producers’ Organisation Aggrey
Mahanjana . Agri SA has called on Ramaphosa to be
crystal clear on the land question. “We need to have policy certainty on the land issue, there must be clarity in terms of how government foresees the implementation of any policy change or constitutional change,” says Agri SA Deputy Executive Director, Christo van Rheede. Some small business owners want the President to allocate more resources to
crime fighting. Business
robberies and break-ins are threatening the viability of many small businesses. Earnest Kgonyane is among
many business owners that crime
has affected. “Criminals are after us in our businesses, for example I have been
attacked twice in my business. “ The President is expected to announce additional measures to support and grow the local economy.  SABC BROADCAST PLANS FOR THE 2019 STATE OF THE NATION ADDRESS (SONA) SABC News will commence its coverage on one of its flagship current affairs programme Morning Live on SABC News Channel 404 on Dstv and terrestrial channel SABC 2 between 06h00 and 09h00. Morning Live will predominantly broadcast a preview of the SONA.  This preview will be followed by coverage on SABC News Channel 404’s programmes ‘Agenda’ and ‘On Point’, building up to the President’s address. These programmes will also cover the Civil Guard of Honour, Red Carpet event and the 21 Gun Salute. The
President’s address will be broadcast live during the prime time programme, ‘Full
View’ on SABC News Channel 404 and on terrestrial channel SABC 2. Following
the President’s address, a post analysis of the speech will be broadcast live
with experts and reaction from various political parties.  There will also
be live crossings to Provinces to solicit reaction from ordinary South Africans
to the President’s speech. The
SABC’s Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) radio stations will carry the
President’s speech live. SABC Radio News bulletins and Current Affairs
programmes will continue to provide updates relating to SONA throughout the
day. SABC News digital platforms
will also provide comprehensive coverage of SONA building up to the President’s
address, from in-depth coverage in a special report on sabcnews.com to social
media updates on @sabcnewsonline. The red carpet arrivals will be live
streamed from 16h00 on the SABC News website and the SABC News YouTube channel
(youtube.com/sabcnews) until the end of the proceedings.