Prime Minister Theresa May asked MPs Tuesday for more time to try and revive her Brexit deal with the EU in what the opposition said was a ploy to “run down the clock”. May updated parliament following a series of last-gasp meetings held in Belfast, Brussels, and Dublin despite EU leaders’ insistence that they will not renegotiate the deal they had already struck with her. Deal or no deal, Britain is due to leave the European Union on March 29, and a disorderly exit could cause chaos. “The talks are
at a crucial stage. We now all need to hold our nerve to get the changes this
house requires and deliver Brexit on time,” May told lawmakers. “Having
secured an agreement with the EU for further talks, we now need some time to
complete that process,” she said. May’s statement was
seen by political commentators as an attempt to defuse any parliamentary
rebellion in a series of votes on May’s Brexit strategy to be held on Thursday. May has promised
MPs another chance to vote, on February 27, on what to do if no deal is
reached.MPs last month overwhelmingly rejected the deal struck between May and
Brussels for Britain’s exit from the EU. Ever since, the
premier has been trying to secure changes to the accord that would satisfy
parliament’s lower House of Commons. Pro-Brexit MPs in
May’s Conservative Party are unhappy particularly with a so-called backstop
provision intended to keep the border with Ireland free-flowing. Some fear it could
leave Britain trapped in EU trade rules indefinitely with no withdrawal
mechanism. Main opposition
Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn said May had come to parliament Tuesday with
“excuses and delays” and accused her of trying to “play chicken
with people’s livelihoods”. “It appears
the prime minister has just one real tactic: to run down the clock hoping
members of this house are blackmailed into supporting a deeply flawed
deal,” he said. For his part, Bank
of England chief Mark Carney warned that leaving the EU without a transition
deal “would be an economic shock for this country”, and said Brexit
was an “acid test” of the globalised economy. Added the City of
London’s policy chief, Catherine McGuinness: “The last grains of sand are
slipping through the hour glass as another day is lost in Brexit limbo”. Brexit Secretary
Stephen Barclay and David Lidington, May’s de facto deputy, met members of the
European Parliament in Strasbourg Tuesday while British Foreign Secretary
Jeremy Hunt was in Paris as part of a diplomatic offensive. Hunt said he had
“open and thoughtful discussions” with French Foreign Minister
Jean-Yves Le Drian. “Both sides
want a Brexit deal that supports ongoing friendship between UK/EU/France so
patience and goodwill on backstop now the critical ingredient,” he
tweeted. Le Drian had a
different message, tweeting that “rapid progress” was needed to
ensure an orderly divorce. A senior member of
the European parliament later ramped up the rhetoric, comparing pro-Brexit MPs
to French revolutionaries. “We must
remember that the efforts of these men were not appreciated by the common
man… because they all ended under the guillotine,” Guy Verhofstadt,
leader of the assembly’s Liberal group, told reporters. Meanwhile, students
supporting a second referendum urged Corbyn to “get off the fence” on
Brexit, in a stunt in his north London constituency. Many of Labour’s
younger, newer supporters who propelled the veteran socialist to the party
leadership want to stay in the EU — but many of the seats Labour holds in
parliament are in pro-Brexit hotbeds. “A lot of
people have noticed the complete lack of opposition on this,” said Kira
Millana Lewis, an 18-year-old student and Labour member. “We believed
in him because we believed he would offer us a brighter future. That isn’t
possible outside of the European Union.”