A Tunisian
court has sentenced seven jihadists to life in prison over attacks at a museum
and on a beach in 2015 that killed 60 people, many of them British tourists,
prosecutors said on Saturday. Dozens of defendants faced two separate trials over the
closely linked shootings, which occurred just months apart in Tunis and Sousse,
but many were acquitted. Four were sentenced to life in prison for the shooting
rampage at a Sousse tourist resort in June 2015, which killed 38 people, mostly
British tourists. Five other defendants in the Sousse case were handed jail
terms ranging from six months to six years, while 17 were acquitted,
prosecution spokesman Sofiene Sliti said. Three were given life sentences for the earlier attack in
March 2015 at the capital’s Bardo National Museum, in which two gunmen killed
21 foreign tourists and a Tunisian
security guard. Others found guilty of links to the Bardo attack were
sentenced to prison terms ranging from one to 16 years, and a dozen defendants
were acquitted, Sliti said. The prosecution will launch an appeal, he added. The court heard that the two attacks, both claimed by the
Islamic State group (IS), were closely linked. Several defendants pointed to the fugitive Chamseddine Sandi
as mastermind of both. According to Tunisian
media, Sandi was killed in a US air strike in neighbouring Libya in February
2016, although there has been no confirmation. Among those who were facing trial were six security personnel
accused of failing to provide assistance to people in danger during the Sousse
attack. That shooting was carried out by Seifeddine Rezgui, who
opened fire on a beach before rampaging into a high-end hotel, where he
continued to fire a kalashnikov and throw grenades until being shot dead by
police. Four French nationals, four Italians, three Japanese and two
Spaniards were among those killed in the Bardo attack, before the two gunmen,
armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles, were themselves shot dead. Investigations showed one of the gunmen, Yassine Laabidi —
who was born in 1990 and was from a poor district near Tunis — had
amphetamines in his body. His fellow attacker Jaber Khachnaoui, born in 1994 and from Tunisia’s deprived Kasserine region,
had travelled to Syria in December 2014 via Libya. One suspect questioned in court, Tunis labourer Mahmoud
Kechouri, said he had helped plan the Bardo attack, including preparing mobile
phones for Sandi, a neighbour and long-time friend. Kechouri, 33, said he was driven by a “duty to
participate in the emergence of the caliphate,” that IS supremo Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi proclaimed in June 2014 across swathes of territory the jihadists
controlled in Iraq and neighbouring Syria. Other defendants accused of helping prepare the attack said
they had only discussed ideas with friends. Several alleged they were tortured
in detention.