The African National Congress (ANC) Veterans League has come out in full support of embattled ANC National Executive Committee member, Derek Hanekom. This follows Hanekom’s admission that he had met with Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) Secretary-General and Member of Parliament, Godrich Gardee after EFF leader Julius Malema revealed that Hanekom tried to garner support from his party to oust former President Jacob Zuma from office. In a letter addressed to the ANC’s top Six, the Veteran’s League expresses their unequivocal support for Hanekom and other members of the party who may have supported the vote of no confidence against Zuma in early 2018. The league also rubbished claims made by the former president in the Zondo Commission that Hanekom was an enemy agent during apartheid. Meanwhile, South African Communist Party (SACP) Central Committee member Jeremy Cronin has described as reckless and irresponsible, claims by former President Jacob Zuma that Hanekom and others were apartheid spies. Cronin says Zuma and his supporters do not care what they are doing to the ANC and the country as they engage in their fightback campaign. Cronin was speaking at an event in Cape Town to mark the 98th anniversary of the SACP. He says what is happening in the ANC, is similar to a civil war. He also asked why the ANC is not defending its members who are being unfairly targeted. “This level of irresponsibility and recklessness on the part of Zuma and he’s not alone in this, I think is an indication, one that these forces have it back to the wall, and they’re facing very serious consequences. We were all listening to the Zondo Commission, were all following the events around the Estina Diary and so forth and I think it’s understandable but completely irresponsible that some forces are basically becoming the suicide bombers inside of the ANC and that there are alleging suicide bombers after them but in fact it’s their micro behaving in a totally reckless way.” Click below for more on the story:   