There will be light at the end of the tunnel for the ANC Youth League Revive Movement, who has been calling for the disbanding of the League’s structures. The party’s National Working Committee has tabled a recommendation to the NEC on how to resolve the issues raised by the movement. A campaign that started two months ago may soon prove to be fruitful. The movement has embarked on regional protests, the handing of memorandum to the party’s headquarters and a legal notice. The Youth League has since been liquidated. ANCYL Revive Movement Thabo Mabotja says:”We have liquidated so no one in the NEC must claim that they are representing the Youth League (refers to Collen Maine). The only solution now is for the league to be disbanded and the Youth League to be rehabilitated.” The African National Congress (ANC) says the party will make an announcement on how the Youth League will be organized. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe says:”The NWC is making a recommendation on the memorandum received from the ANCYL Revive Movement, following that, we are going to make an announcement on how the ANCYL will be organized.” The news was received well by the young lions, but caution that if their demands are not entirely met, they will continue with their programme of action. ANCYL Revive Movement Zuko Godlimpi says: “Judging by Pule’s comments, we get the sense that the NWC has recommended that the ANCYL NEC be disbanded but if they don’t meet our demands, they’ll find us here again.” Meanwhile, another group of ANC members from Maluti-A-Phofong staged a protest demanding 16 ANC councillors who were fired be reinstated. They claim the Secretary General of the ANC, Ace Magashule, had a hand in their dismissal. ANC member Mongezi Malawana says:”We are here to call for the reinstatement of the 16 councillors that were fired from our municipality. Ace Magashule is behind this because our members voted with the opposition to oust a corrupt mayor.” All eyes are now on the NEC to respond to both groups. As they intensify their fight, the ANCYL Revive Movement want nothing more but for the ailing Youth league to be disbanded. This group expects the ANC to respond to their demands post the NEC meeting. Click video below: 