Gauteng Human Settlements MEC Lebogang Maile has again dismissed suggestions that the Alexandra Urban Renewal Project was allocated R1.3 billion. Speaking during his testimony at the Alexandra Inquiry in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, Maile said he is confident the Gauteng provincial government will not be implicated in any wrongdoing in regard to the Renewal Project. The Alexandra Urban Renewal Project was launched by former President Thabo Mbeki in 2001 aimed at transforming Alexandra’s physical, economic and social environment. Maile says he welcomes the City of Johannesburg’s forensic investigation into the Alexandra Renewal Project. “If he investigates there is no way, depending on what is his intention, there is no way he can implicate anyone from the province because the province doesn’t participate in that budget, we participate in the provincial budget. So we don’t have a problem, we welcome that he has taken that step and I’m sure he has good reason, I don’t think he will just decide to investigate without any good reason.” Tough questions During the inquiry, Maile loses his cool as he faced tough questions about the controversial Alex Renewal Project and service delivery. He dismissed the corruption allegations as a political game.  Deputy Minister of Cooperative Governance Obed Bapela as well as Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi are expected to make submissions to the Alexandra Inquiry, which is set to resume in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, Wednesday morning. Bapela, who is the chairperson of the inter-ministerial task team probing Alexandra, is expected to shed light on what findings the team has made since its inception. The inquiry convened by the Human Rights Commission and the Office of the Public Protector is probing the socio-economic conditions in the township. The inquiry is also looking at how these impact the fundamental rights of communities and whether they amount to maladministration, abuse of power, corruption and improper conduct. The inquiry follows a spate of protests in the township earlier this year.  -Additional reporting by Maageketla Mohlabe