City of Johannesburg Council Chief Whip, Kevin Wax is optimistic that documents relating to the controversial R1.3 billion Alexandra Renewal Project, have not been stolen. Wax’s office and that of his deputy have been broken into last night. Wax says an investigation is underway to determine exactly what has been stolen. Forensics are still trying to determine whether any computers or soft copies are missing.  The Chief Whip has refuted some of the media reports. “There appears to be in the media a statement that some crucial documents are missing. That is at this stage not verifiable because we are doing a pre-assessment in terms of if any critical documents might be missing. But it does not look like there’s been serious documents taken. Because some of the documents are not even housed where they tried to break in,” says Wax. More details have emerged on the burglary. Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) spokesperson Wayne Minnaar says the person responsible for the burglary has been identified. “ How he entered the building and how the suspect was able to get out is not yet clear. We can confirm that there is damage to the gas door and a wooden door to the offices. We can see the intruder changed, however, we can see his face very clearly. He was walking out of the office with a backpack.” Meanwhile, City of Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba tweeted a picture of the suspect wanted in connection with the burglary. CCTV footage reveals a sole figure walking through the corridors.  Then exiting at the main entrance with bags, files and a torch. An R25 000 reward is being offered for information that may lead to an arrest. Police could not provide details of the stolen items and documents. The city says its suspects an inside job.  The incident comes after a government official stole and returned files relating to the investigation of the controversial R1,3-billion Alexandra Renewal Project. The Gauteng Department of Human settlements employee returned three documents,  as well as meeting attendance registers. Click below for more on the story: 