Britain’s incoming  Prime Minister and leader of the Conservative Party, Boris Johnson has pledged to deliver Brexit by the 31st October deadline. Johnson beat his rival Jeremy Hunt by garnering just over 92 000 votes to Hunt’s 46 000. The Brexit issue has divided the UK government and forced his predecessor, Theresa May out of office after MPs failed to accept her Brexit proposals. Speaking at a party event in London, Johnson said the Brexit issue is a daunting one but one that his party can deliver on. “At this pivotal moment in our history we again have to reconcile two sets of instincts. Two noble sets of instincts between the deep desire of friendship and free trade and mutual support in security and defence between Britain and our European partners; and the simultaneous desire equally deep and heartfelt for democratic self-government in this country and of course there’s some people who say that they’re irreconcilable and it just can’t be done. I think that we know that we can do it and that the people of this country are trusting in us to do it and we know that we will do it,” Johnson expresses. British business leaders have urged Johnson to avoid taking the country out of the European Union without a Brexit deal. Johnson has said he will seek a new divorce agreement with Brussels but will leave without one if that is the only way to keep to the latest October 31 exit deadline. “The new prime minister must not underestimate the benefits of a good deal,” said Carolyn Fairbairn, director-general of the Confederation of British Industry, Britain’s biggest employers’ organisation which represents some 190 000 businesses. “It will unlock new investment and confidence in factories and boardrooms across the country. Business will back you across Europe to help get there.” The British Chambers of Commerce, which also represents thousands of firms, urged Johnson to spell out how he would avoid a chaotic no-deal Brexit. “The message to Boris Johnson from business communities around the UK couldn’t be simpler: the time for campaigning is over — and we need you to get down to business,” said BCC Director General Adam Marshall. “Companies need to know, in concrete terms, what your government will do to avoid a messy, disorderly Brexit on October 31, which would bring pain to communities across the UK and disruption to our trade around the world.” Johnson was elected leader of the governing Conservative party on Tuesday and will take over as prime minister on Wednesday afternoon. He replaces Theresa May, who quit after trying and failing to get her deal with Brussels through the British parliament, forcing her to delay Brexit twice.
Additional Reporting – AFP 