Former President Jacob Zuma says that he is going to appear before the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture and will see how it goes. Zuma was speaking to SABC News moments after his son, Duduzane Zuma, was found not guilty of culpable homicide and negligent driving following a 2014 collision with a taxi that left passenger, Phumzile Dube dead. Five years after the collision, Duduzane walked out of the Randburg Magistrate’s Court a free man. Acting Chief Magistrate, Tebogo Thupaatlase, reading the judgment, says that the state failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. “There is no evidence to suggest that the accused firstly could have foreseen the presence of a puddle of water. The other two drivers didn’t see the puddle of water, but we know when the passengers got off, the water was ankle high and covered their shoes. There is also no evidence to indicate what steps he should have taken to avoid aquaplaning in order to avoid what eventually happened. Therefore, the state failed to prove the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The accused is found not guilty in the main and alternative.” Zuma, who has been at his son’s side, says he is happy with the outcome. “I am happy that the case is over and that the court found that he was not irresponsible and that it was the circumstances that led to the accident. The outcome of this case is pleasing.” Zuma also spoke briefly about his appearance before the State Capture Commission on Monday. “In all honesty, I was asked by the commission to appear. We will see there how it goes, but I am going there.” Again, the family of the late Phumzile Dube, who have been seeking justice, refused to speak to the media. Black First Land First attended court proceedings from day one. The party’s Zanele Lwana says that she is happy with the judgment. “Very happy with the judgment, hope it sets a good precedent that the courts cannot be abused just because someone is a political opponent.” The NPA says it accepts the outcome. WATCH VIDEOS BELOW:  