The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) says in order for President Cyril Ramaphosa to forge ahead with his plan on economic growth for the country, he needs to scrap the Gauteng E-tolling system. Two members within the governing party took to social media to air their differences on the matter. Finance Minister Tito Mboweni supports the continuation of the system while Gauteng Premier David Makhura wants it scrapped. Ramaphosa has tasked the two, along with Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula, to come up with a solution to resolve the impasse. OUTA CEO Wayne Duvenhage says Gauteng is the economic hub of the country. “If you just apply rationality, you would pull the plug on a scheme that has failed so it’s very easy for Tito Mboweni to say no. Well, we just going to  carry on – the problem is its not working; it doesn’t help to try and force a square peg it’s a round hole. They did not consult the public and they’ve put in the most irrational scheme and they’ve had to pay the price now. This is the economic powerhouse of the country. If this province needs eight lane highways then give it to them because the more productive Gauteng is, the more money the country makes,” says Duvenhage. Meanwhile, Trade Union Federation –  COSATU says government must come up with a solution to the Gauteng e-tolling system in order to stem the country’s largest boycott since the dawn of democracy. Gauteng Cosatu Chairperson Amos Monyela says government must find alternative ways to recoup the e-toll debt in a manner that does not impact the already constrained budget of ordinary South Africans. “They never consulted anybody when they were dealing with the tolling of the roads and etoll system so now they want the federation and everyone else in Gauteng to come up with solutions. We have elected them to come up with solutions. We don’t want to even get into that space because we are paying tax, we are paying fuel levy, and we are paying everything in this country.  Therefore they are our servants. They must come up with alternatives and solutions. That’s why the president is saying end of August, let them come up with a report to cabinet. Our campaign has been successful. We are not paying etolls, motorists must not pay etolls. This in our view is the biggest boycott since the dawn of democracy,” says Monyela. Watch related video below: