Police Minister Bheki Cele says private security companies have been central in arresting the surge in cash-in-transit heists. Addressing a Private Security Indaba in Kempton Park, east of Johannesburg, Cele says their co-operation with the companies has sent a clear message to criminals. Cele decried the resources that criminals had as opposed to the security cluster. He also says private companies should be at the centre of community safety. Cele says they had to work together with private security companies to deal with cash-in-transit heists that were getting out of control. Cele says co-operation with private companies is important because criminals are well-resourced. “I have come to understand and respect private security companies, especially after working with them on the matter, on the high crime of cash in South Africa in 2018. South Africa was burning because of the criminals dealing with cash, we had to come together. We had a lot of joint operations.” Cele has called on private security to professionalise their staff, saying that while they might not be as stringent as the police, the industry needs to train security guards to be able to match the security risks they face. He also highlighted the problem of corruption within their ranks saying corruption is just spreading its wings, even overwhelming prosecutors. “It used to be police that sell dockets and prosecutors sell dockets and never reaches the court. Anyone who thinks we are not facing high degree of criminality within our structures you’re day dreaming.” Gauteng Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Elias Mawela says police want to use technology to tap into the Fourth Industrial Revolution. He says the use of drones would cut out a number of challenges they face such as accessing locations. Mawela called on private security companies to avail their resources. “Hence we want to partner with you. We know there is a lot we can tap into from what you are having. The private sector can assist us, and we can integrate all our resources and collaborate in whatever we do. In Gauteng, we have already started with collaboration with the private sector. We have a project called Eyes and Ears where securities have grouped together and working closely with us.” The Indaba included speakers from the United States, Brazil and Russia. The speakers shared information on current situations in their countries including compliance and registration. They also mooted ideas such as the provision of online training, securing boarders and international regulation and work. Click video below for more on the story: 