EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has defended the Public Protector before the Parliament’s Justice Committee, saying MPs  should refrain from asking Busisiwe Mkhwebane what he termed “ridiculous” questions. The Public Protector told the Committee that her office continues to face harsh criticism from officials who have been implicated in her investigations.  ANC MP, Qubudile Dyantyi, accused Mkhwebane of giving an angry and irrelevant presentation to the Committee. This led to a heated exchange between Ndlozi and Dyantyi. Ndlozi referred to MPs as delinquents. “These members of parliament are motivated by constitutional delinquency to undermine this office. It’s an abuse of power…” Dyantyi interjected while Ndlozi was speaking. “Honourable Ndlozi, are we going to be given an opportunity to correct the misperception that she is creating here deliberately because we are members of Parliament?” Ndlozi responded: “That’s not a point of order. Don’t disrupt the meeting.” The EFF wants Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan to be removed from cabinet and for President Cyril Ramaphosa to take the Public Protector’s remedial action against Gordhan seriously. Ndlozi says the revelations by the Public Protector on Gordhan’s alleged involvement in the so-called SARS Rogue Unit is tantamount to treason. In one of the findings against Gordhan, Mkhwebane found that Gordhan violated the Constitution when he ratified the creation of the unit when he was still SARS Commissioner. The unit was established to probe movements which include activities of tax evaders. Ndlozi says Ramaphosa must act. “We call on Ramaphosa to act on the remedial action that Gordhan must face the full might of the law. He must be subjected to discipline but also the South African Police Services must comply with immediate effect and institute a criminal investigation against Gordhan as well as on all other gang members of the Rogue unit. Essentially, Ramaphosa must remove Gordhan from the cabinet. “Gordhan has to be removed from exercising any power in a democratic state on behalf of our people because what he did within SARS; establishing the rogue unit amounts to abuse of power, is tantamount to treason which is the highest betrayal of the constitution and the people of South Africa,” Ndlozi insists.  