Political Analyst, Ralph Mathekga, has outlined his expectations of former President Jacob Zuma’s appearance at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture, saying Zuma’s aim may be to discredit any notion that he enabled State Capture activities. Zuma established the Commission in January 2018 as per the recommendations of the former Public Protector’s State of Capture Report. After 130 days of testimony from more than 80 people, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo is set to hear Zuma’s version. Some have placed the former President and the Gupta family directly at the centre of the State Capture project. Mathekga has questioned whether Zuma will challenge the already-existing evidence before the Commission. “Sometimes when people are cross-examined, you start seeing people changing their statements. So it will be very interesting to hear Zuma’s own version. Is he going to challenge the version that exists out there? “This is someone who is in denial about State Capture. He believes State Capture is just an orchestration or an idea by people. So, his aim will be to discredit the ideas that there has been State Capture under his watch.”  Meanwhile political analyst, Elvis Masoga says there has been substantive accusations and allegations that were levelled against former President:  The issue of State Capture has raised concerns about the effectiveness of legal processes and institutions in South Africa. Lawyer and founder: Country Duty, Tumi Sole explains:  Security beefed up Security has been beefed up at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture venue in Johannesburg. Journalists, photo and videographers from home and abroad have already positioned themselves inside the venue of the Commission where former President Jacob Zuma is expected to field questions from the presiding officer Justice Raymond Zondo and his legal team. At least eight witnesses have implicated Zuma in the State Capture Project where some ministers and executive of state owned companies were appointed only to benefit the politically connected. His supporters are also gathering around the precinct of of the Commission and have vowed to be here until the end of his testimony. 