The fourth industrial revolution has been synonymous with job losses, bringing with it a new fear among South Africans. Companies have looked to technology for great efficiency and profitability, which has led to layoffs and job cuts. The state of affairs was the hot topic at the 4IRSA in Midrand, North of Johannesburg. The first summit of its kind in South Africa held at the Gallagher Estate in Midrand. President Cyril Ramaphosa called on South Africans to dream and visualise the digital revolution. Technological transformation has now become the reality as the nation gears up to embrace the fourth industrial revolution. In his key note address, President Ramaphosa has assured citizens that while there will be some job losses, many other employment opportunities will be created. “What the 4IRSA can enable us to do is to address the seven priorities, they being enhancing economic transformation and job creation but many more jobs are going to be created as we move ahead with the fourth industrial revolution.”  Imagine a hologram of President Cyril Ramaphosa beamed from Midrand to Rustenburg. The hologram was broadcast in Rustenburg – showing the real time events that were taking place at the summit. The company that invented the modern technology says it can also be used for educational purposes. Nokia Technician Piet Swanepoel says, “We can also use in educational environment where teachers run to all classes or all different schools to also put the teacher virtually into more classrooms to more children, so there is multitude to can use this going into the future.” With the ever evolving technology, how ready is South Africa to take on the 4IR? Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams says:”One of the crucial things about the 4IR is something that we live with, because it’s technology that we live with every day.”  Job seekers have been urged to seek the competitive edge by getting the right skills and education. The Fourth industrial revolution serves as an opportunity for the country to embrace change and digital growth. Click video below:  -Report by Nothando Magudulela