Western Cape police have asked members of the public to help them trace six people of interest in connection with last weekend’s murders in Phillipi East, on the Cape Flats. Detectives attached to the Provincial Organised Crime Unit are investigating the case. Police say the men are Siphenkosi Gwazekhaya also known as Bhoyoyo, Shane Madolo, Thamsanqa Lande, Lubabalo Phethelo, Onke Thafu and Oyam Hlamu also known as Mashesha. Six women were murdered in a single incident in Philippi East on Friday evening. Five more people were also shot and killed later in a separate incident. A reward of R70 000 will be given to anyone who knows the whereabouts of any of these people. Anyone with information is requested to contact Brigadier Bhekie Khumalo on 082 5568642 or 021-4676140.  Crime Summit Police are hosting a two-day Provincial Crime Summit under the theme: Building a United Front in The Fight Against Crime, in an effort to build safer communities. The Crime Summit aims to bring various stakeholders together to exchange views and craft sustainable solutions towards combating crime in the Western Cape. Deployment of SANDF Meanwhile, the SANDF says the public needs to be informed about the process of deploying the army to areas in which they are asked to assist. The deployment of SANDF members was delayed while the legal paperwork was being completed to ensure that the move is in line with the constitution. Troops from around the country have now started to arrive in Cape Town ahead of their deployment to the Cape Flats in support of a major police operation against gansterism. Currently, there’s a high police presence in areas such as Philippi East where 11 people were shot and killed in three incidents last weekend. SANDF Spokesperson Siphiwe Dlamini says there’s a legal process that needs to be followed. “The process has been complete and that is why we now are seeing movement and the fact that we’ve begun mobilising. Once we are aware that a request of this nature has been made by the department concerned- in this regard, the police – we then begin from our side to look at the mobilisation. Where are we gonna get the troops; what support do they need; so that process already kicks in? However, we have to do that within the prescripts of the law.” 