The African National Congress (ANC) is still in the process of finalising the names of its members who will fill vacancies in the National Assembly left among others, by President Cyril Ramaphosa. ANC members, Baleka Mbete, Nomvula Mokonayne and Malusi Gigaba opted not to take up their seats during last week’s swearing-in ceremony in Parliament. This leaves four seats vacant on the ruling party’s benches in the National Assembly. In line with the Constitution, President Ramaphosa seized to be a member of Parliament as soon as he was elected President of the Republic. Acting spokesperson of the ANC caucus, Nonceba Mhluali, says these matters are still being considered. ” The ANC is in the process of finalising the filling of vacancies which has arisen in the National Assembly, once that process has been finalised, an announcement will be made about who are those comrades that will take up those seats and when they will be sworn in,” says Mhluali. Meanwhile, the ANC Integrity Commission is currently hearing from those red-flagged in its report of members who have negatively affected the reputation of the party. The SABC understands that ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule has written letters to all 22 red-flagged leaders of the party to appear before the Integrity Commission to clear their names. Those named include Deputy President David Mabuza, Gwede Mantashe and Malusi Gigaba. The Commission is expected to conclude hearing these members side of the story in the next two days. Political analyst Professor Leseba Tefo says chances of David Mabuza being the deputy president again are very high. Tefo’s comments come as President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to announce his new cabinet later this week. A cloud hangs over Mabuza following allegations of corruption levelled against him in his capacity as former premier of Mpumalanga. Professor Tefo says allegations levelled against Mabuza have not been proven in court. “What DD did is to portray himself as a voice of reason that is responsive to the call of the ANC that, when you are implicated in malice and other things please step aside address those. If today is acquitted again once more or they say there’s nothing we can do about this matter and then he’s cleared. DD will come out smelling like a rose, more strengthened and more presidential because now people will say that’s the example that is worthy of emulation,” says  Tefo.