President Cyril Ramaphosa has made an undertaking to be the President of all South Africans and not only for those who voted for the ANC. Ramaphosa was elected unopposed. He says he is honoured and humbled to be elected the President of the Sixth democratic Parliament. He says: “I will work day and night, to the best of my ability, to deliver on our mandate and in the best interests of our people. I am truly humbled with the honour to be President of the people of the Republic of South Africa.” Delivering his acceptance speech in Parliament after being elected as President, Ramaphosa has pledged to increase his governments consultation with the leaders of the political parties represented in Parliament in order to best serve the people of the country. “I will, like Madiba did, I will be able to work with Kings and Queens without losing the common touch of our people – that I will not do.” He said he, along with his new cabinet, will work with all the parties represented in Parliament towards social and economic transformation. The President has however admitted that he has a difficult task ahead as he begins his new term as leader of the country. “The problems that we confront are huge. They are immense. We are, yes, going to have to be tough and to make tough choices. As well we are going to have to ensure that, as we address the needs of our people, we take difficult decisions and some of those difficult decisions may be tough decisions against certain people, certain interest groups.”  Political parties congratulate President Ramaphosa Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has also congratulated Cyril Ramaphosa on his election as President of South Africa with caution to heed the advice and concerns of other political leaders. Malema says the EFF will continue to ensure that Ramaphosa deals with corruption and factionalism. Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane has also congratulated Ramaphosa with a plea to make sure those who are implicated and found guilty of corruption end up in prison. Maimane says the DA will be behind Ramaphosa in tackling corruption but also to hold him to account. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa has called on the President to fulfil his mandate in the interests of the people. “I hope that in solving the problems of this country, you will apply a non partisan approach. In that way, you will get a lot of support from this House. Thank you! ” Leader of the Freedom Front Plus, Pieter Groenewald has called on the President to use the responsibility given to him by the people to work towards uniting the country and ensuring equal rights for all, including minority groups.     NATIONAL ASSEMBLY LEADERS MPs for South Africa's sixth parliament  were sworn-in on Wednesday, 22 May 2019 #1 PRESIDENT Thandi Modise SPEAKER - NA Lechesa Tsenoli DEP. SPEAKER - ﻿NA Cyril Ramaphosa #2 #3 Ramaphosa was elected unopposed Modise replaces Baleka Mbete  She is former NCOP Chairperson Tsenoli was elected as deputy Speaker and retains his position from the 5th parliament of the Republic (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));