The African National Congress (ANC) says its national candidate list is still with the integrity committee for review. The party has come under heavy criticism on its national list which includes amongst others Mosebenzi Zwane, Bathabile Dlamini, Malusi Gigaba, and Nomvula Mokonyane who have been implicated in allegations of corruption. ANC’s spokesperson Pule Mabe says the list candidate will be discussed at the party’s next National Executive Committee meeting. Last year the ANC came under fire for including controversial figures. “Before the election what was referred to the integrity committee was the whole list of those that will be going in as members of parliament. The IEC has published the list which was already submitted by the ANC. The list is out there. We will be seating as the NEC very soon to conclude, because there’s a tight programme that guides the roll-out and the establishment of the sixth Parliament,” says Pule Mabe. On Monday the party announced seven of its eight premiers following last week’s national and provincial elections. The party says it will announce its premier for the North West in due course, as there are still unresolved party issues in the province. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule announced the list of the premiers-elect during a media briefing in Irene, Pretoria, where NEC members have been meeting. “The NEC received three names per province as recommended by the Provincial Executive Committees.  Following are the nominated Premier Candidates: Eastern Cape – Oscar Mabuyane,  Free State – Sisi Ntombela,  Gauteng – David Makhura , KwaZulu-Natal – Sihle Zikalala, Limpopo- Stan Mathabatha,  Mpumalanga – Refilwe Mtsweni ,  Northern Cape – Zamani Saul  Pertaining to the North West the Premier Candidate will be announced in due course following internal engagements. ”  KwaZulu-Natal premier-elect Sihle Zikalala says he will make stabilising the province his first priority. He says he wants to restore good governance and attract investment to the province which is prone to protests and politically-motivated killings.  Zikalala says he is ready for the task. “The ANC will never exist if it seizes to serve the people. We must understand that we serve at the behest of the people but also whatever we are doing we must do with a great sense of urgency. We must understand that there are people who do not have water. We must understand that there are people who are living in poverty who do not have jobs and we must work hard and with speed to ensure that we deliver to our people. We should be able to move with speed with the transformation agenda.” Click below for more on the story:   