The Head of Sudan’s Transitional Military council has accused Sudanese demonstrators of breaking an agreement undertaking to put on hold demonstrations whilst talks are underway. He’s suspended talks for 72 hours; a suspension protesters have denounced as uncalled for also accusing the council of being heavy handed. At least nine people were wounded on Wednesday when Sudanese forces used live ammunition to clear demonstrators from central Khartoum. The military council said protesters were disrupting life in the capital by blocking roads outside a protest zone agreed upon with the military. In a televised speech on Thursday, the Military Council accused the demonstrators of breaking an agreement to put protests on hold while talks are underway. Lieutenant General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan of the Military Council has labelled the demonstrations as direct provocation. “This is a direct provocation and extreme abuse to the Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF). Knowing that the RSF were born from the womb of this great army and they have played a great and effective role for the security of this nation.” As a result, the military council had decided to suspend talks for 72 hours until a suitable atmosphere was created to complete an agreement. Sudan’s opposition, the Declaration of Freedom and Change Forces, said the suspension of talks was a regrettable decision. It vowed to continue sit-ins outside the defence ministry. Protesters agree with the opposition. “My opinion is that this was not the right move at all. It is unacceptable that the military council has stopped the negotiations at a sensitive time like this.” “Honestly the decision issued today to halt negotiations is a big shock to all citizens of Sudan, by the Military Council which is trying to seize control. This is like the devil wanting to take heaven.” Member of the military council, Yasser Atta, has promised that the council will investigate the shooting. “We also reassure everyone that we are investigating everyone who has tampered with the blood of this great people.” On Wednesday the two sides agreed on the composition of a legislative council and the duration of the transition following talks that have been held for several weeks.