The Gauteng 2020 school online registration process starts at 8am on Monday morning. The halted online applications will proceed after legal disputes caused a week’s postponement. Applications for learners in grades one and eight were abruptly stopped last week Sunday following complaints from some organisations about the new feeder zones and language regulations in the province. They included the Federation of Governing Bodies of South Africa which on Thursday said it was giving the go-ahead for applications to start. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi told the media in Johannesburg on Sunday that struggling parents will be assisted. “We’ll provide access tomorrow (Monday) that is why we are sending all our officials to all our schools. You’ll see community libraries and what you call these places, internet cafes. You must just go and see what is happening. Those internet cafes are flooded. All community libraries are providing this service free of charge, so where people do not have access, go to a community library or community centres, people will assist you.” Lesufi says the registration process for the 2020 online applications will be rolled out over three phases. “We are opening tomorrow (Monday) at eight until the 22nd of July at midnight – not at eight – at midnight. Immediately after that, on the 31st of August 2019, every parent that applied on time will have a happy SMS coming to their phones to say your child is placed in this school. And then the last phase then, that’s when the schools will then place your child after you’ve accepted because when we send that happy SMS, you must accept within 7 working days and give us all the documents.” Meanwhile, the Federation of Governing Bodies of South African Schools has welcomed the changes made to the online registration process for Gauteng schools. The Federations CEO Paul Colditz says parents should log onto the website before admissions open to view the instruction video on how to correctly apply for admission. Colditz says parents get to choose five schools from a list of schools within a 30-kilometre radius of their home. Click on the video below:   