In Gauteng, David Makhura has pledged to work with all parties to deliver much-needed services. He was sworn in on Wednesday at the Gauteng Provincial Legislature. Premier David Makhura poised to appoint a younger and energetic cabinet. The 51-year old says the provincial government leaders are public servants first. “Working together is not a choice; we need to work with everyone, even those who are not ANC Mayors to deliver services.” The official opposition says it will monitor the delivery of services. Although the Economic Freedom Fighters backed the Democratic Alliance with their votes, the party says this does not mean it is in bed with the democrats. Makhura is expected to announce his cabinet by Friday.  Newly elected Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela has called on political parties to work together to develop the province. Ntombela was re-elected as Premier in the provincial legislature. Her election follows the swearing in of 30 members of provincial legislature for the 6th democratic administration. Zanele Sifuba has been nominated unopposed as the speaker. Lucy Mapena is now the deputy speaker, while disgraced former Maluti a Phofung Mayor, Vusi Tshabalala is the Chief Whip. Permanent delegates of the National Council of Provinces were also elected. The incoming Premier has reiterated that all members of the legislature should put aside political differences and focus on growing the Free State economy. “Our goal is one, to serve the public with humility and put our differences aside. People want services to be rendered and we shall deliver.” In the Northern Cape, a new cabinet is expected to be announced next week.  Dr Zamani Saul has been officially elected as Premier. He was among thirty members who were sworn in as members of the Northern Cape Legislature in Kimberley. Hundreds attended the ceremony presided by Northern Cape Judge President Pule Tlaletsi. The former Namakwa District Municipality Speaker Newrene Klaaste is now Speaker of the Legislature. Former Sol Plaatje Municipality Mayor Mangaliso Matika is the Deputy Speaker and the ANC Provincial Youth League Secretary Neo Manengtake takes the position of the party’s chief whip in the legislature. Dr Saul Zamani is expected to be inaugurated as Premier of the province next week Tuesday.  Newly elected Western Cape Premier, Alan Winde has committed his government to intensified service delivery that is informed by issues raised during campaigning. The DA’s Masizole Mnqasela and Beverley Schäfer were respectively elected as Speaker and deputy Speaker. Winde addressed the legislature shortly after his election. “This parliament has a role to play, whether you are elected as government or whether you are elected as opposition. And with that, I would like to say to every member elected her today and today we must work together make sure that we improve the lives of every person in the province. We went out on the road and we were opponents in this campaign, but we’ve hung up our t-shirts up and put other jackets on, and now we’re going to work for the betterment of all the people in this province.” Winde secured 24 votes in a secret ballot. Cameron Dugmore, who was the ANC’s Premier candidate, garnered 10 votes. Meanwhile, newly sworn-in North West premier, Job Mokgoro has talked hard on corruption, saying those who still have corruption allegations hanging over their heads won’t make it to his provincial cabinet. Mokgoro, whose province was taken over by the national government, says his priority would be to appoint the right people – both in the executive and administration. “We are fully behind efforts to root out corruption. All of us have this opportunity to serve in the provincial state of North West. Those who serve have better make sure – I am talking about both political and administrative, better make sure that they are the right people, in the right seat, in the right bus and the right direction. “Let me send a warning bell to those who will be serving in the executive, we are the servants of the people. We will do nothing apart from responding to the dire needs of the people,” he stresses. Mokgoro’s appointment as premier has been welcomed by the alliance partners of the African National Congress (ANC) as well as the women’s league in the North West. Mokgoro was appointed as North West Premier in June 2018, taking over from then premier, Supra Mahumapelo. 