Condolences continue to pour in for veteran journalist Sefako Nyaka who passed away on Saturday. Nyaka died at the age of 69 following a long illness. He worked for several newspaper publications and the South African Broadcasting Corporation. A journalist, a father, a brother and a colleague, Sefako Nyaka meant different things to many people. His journalist credentials began in the late 70’s. He worked for various print publications like the Rand Daily Mail, The New Nation and Sunday Star. Close friend and fellow veteran journalist Phil Molefe worked closely with Nyaka at the height of Apartheid. During this time he interacted with several political leaders. “I have travelled the journey with Sefako. He was a friend, a brother and a comrade. I have worked with him both in the print media and at the SABC. We have traversed the terrain together. As a journalist he was a cut above the rest, one of the finest journalists ever produced in this country, an outstanding feature. His desire to share his skills;  Sefako was an eternal teacher.” In 1994, he joined the SABC as a political correspondent reporting in a democratic South Africa. He later took up the post as London Bureau Chief. Nyaka also worked in various government positions. He will be remembered for his larger than life personality which touched many. “An affable person, well-rounded, loving, easy going one who loved the company of his friends, across the political spectrum, he had friends who had varying views on developments in the country and the world, he loved such company who held a space for engagement, he loved to entertain,” says Molefe. A memorial service will be held on Thursday at the SABC for Nyaka. He will be laid to rest on Friday.  Sanef mourns the passing of Sefako Nyaka The South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) says it’s deeply saddened by the passing away of former South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) TV Current Affairs Editor, Sefako Nyaka. “We send our deepest condolences to his family and colleagues in the media, especially at the SABC where he was an integral part of their editorial team.” It adds that, “SABC News colleagues who worked closely with Sefako remember him as a true gentleman and leader. He went out of his way to pair promising young and talented journalists with seasoned mentors. He apparently always left a “paper money tip” for the SABC canteen staff, subtly influencing others to do the same.”