The presidency says preparations for the inauguration of the sixth democratically elected President of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa, on Saturday at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria are at an advanced stage. Members of the public who plan to attend the inauguration of the President will have to go through an accreditation process. This will take place at the Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool (Affies), just opposite the stadium. Shuttle coaches will be available at the Tshwane events centre to take people to the venue. Acting government spokesperson Phumla Williams is urging people to arrive early for accreditation. “The cars will not be allowed in the vicinity so you have to go and park your car at the Tshwane events centre. However, there will be some people who live nearby and they will walk through, but what we are saying is that all of them need to go through Affies so that they can be cleared to make sure that they do not get into the stadium with things that are prohibited and they will then be given wristbands,” says Williams. Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele says over 2 500 police officers are being deployed along routes around the Loftus Versfeld Stadium. Motorists in Tshwane are also being advised that routes around the stadium will be closed from 3PM on Friday. Road closures will include Soutpansberg, Loftus and Hatfield. Rietondale Park, which will be used as a park-and-ride area for invited guests, will also be affected. Cele has called on those attending the inauguration to co-operate with law enforcement agencies. “This day comes once in five years and the whole world comes here. Heads of states, heads of government, ministers, everyone, the UN and AU – everyone will be here. So we are simply saying to them they must really cool off on that day. Make SA look good and make SA be known as a country that is disciplined,” says Cele. Watch related videos for more on the story:  Members of the public are also encouraged to go to different public viewing sites across the nine provinces where the ceremony will be live streamed according to a Government Communications statement. A list and addresses of the viewing sites with contact person(s) and the coordinates is available: 