A warrant of arrest has been issued against ANC Women’s League deputy secretary in the North West, Keobiditse “Bitsa” Lenkopane by the Ganyesa Magistrate Court. Lenkopane, who was sworn in as a member of the North West Provincial Legislature in Mahikeng, last week, failed to appear on charges of misuse of state vehicle. That was during the time when she was mayor of Kagisano-Molopo in 2018. Lenkopane allegedly misused the Kagisano Molopo local municipality vehicle during her tenure as the Mayor. Her charge is related to the unauthorised use of a municipal vehicle which was involved in an accident a year ago. The accident led to the death of her domestic worker. She is also being accused of misusing petrol cards and another vehicle belonging to the municipality. The controversial political figure was removed by her own ANC councilors as mayor, through a vote of no confidence after she was convicted of fraud and assault in two separate cases. Fresh from being sworn-in as a member of the provincial legislature, the controversial figure now faces an uncertain political future. During the submission of ANC list candidates, former ANC Spokesperson Dakota Legoete said the party was committed to removing her because of the convictions.  “We have verified the facts and indeed we have found she has a criminal record, we are going to submit to the IEC to officially withdraw her,” said Legoete. In what could be a blow to her political ambitions; Patrick Orekeng of the Ganyetsa Magistrate’s Court said she is facing arrest following her failure to appear in court.  “A warrant of arrest is being authorised against her, which is held until 8 of July. She needs to bring proof of where she was today,” expressed Orekeng. The court gallery was full to capacity, with locals calling for accountability. Lenkopane’s Lawyer, Lionel Ronester, says his client was in Mmabatho and believes the state’s case against her does not hold water.  “My instruction is that she was inaugurated as member of North West Legislature and part of her duties forced her to be in Mmabatho.” A two-day trial date has been set, for 8 and 9 July 2019. WATCH VIDEO BELOW: 