Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng will on Wednesday officially receive the list of designated Members of Parliament and the Provincial Legislatures from the Independent Electoral Commission’s Chairperson, Vuma Mashinini. The Chief Justice will also announce the dates of the first sittings of the NCOP and the National Assembly. This is according to the Spokesperson of the Office of the Chief Justice, Nathi Mncube. After receiving the list of candidates for Parliament, Mogoeng will hand it over to the Acting Secretary to Parliament, Baby Tyawa. The Chief Justice’s Office says Mogoeng will also hand the list of designated Members of the Provincial Legislatures to the Judges President who have been designated by the Chief Justice to preside over the first sitting of the Provincial Legislatures. Spokesperson of the Office of the Chief Justice, Nathi Mncube elaborates, “On Wednesday the 15th of May at about 2 0’clock at the Constitutional Court of South Africa, the IEC Chairperson will hand over the lists of the candidates of persons that have been elected in Parliament and also the list of those candidates that have been elected to be in the legislatures. These names will be handed over by the IEC to the Chief Justice of the Republic of South Africa, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. He will then determine the first sitting of the two Houses, which is the National Assembly and NCOP,” explains Nathi Mncube who is the spokesperson of the Office of the Chief Justice. Meanwhile, the Secretary to the National Assembly, Masibulele Xaso, says as soon as the list of designated MPs has been handed over to Parliament, they will start the process of preparing the members. “That will enable us to contact the members to make arrangements for the member to come to Parliament to interact with them on a range of issues. Some members will take the oath, others will do affirmations. We need to clarify those issues but you can only do that, once we know who is coming to Parliament,” says Xaso. The provisional date set for the swearing-in of National Assembly MPs is the 22nd May, and the 23rd of May for permanent delegates of the NCOP. However, these dates are subject to an official announcement by the Chief Justice.