Relatives, friends, colleagues and the political fraternity has bid farewell to late veteran journalist, Sefako Nyaka. The former South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) Current Affairs Chief was laid to rest at Heroes Acre Cemetery in Johannesburg on Friday. Nyaka passed away at the age of 69. A renowned communicator, his career spanned over 38 years. Speakers at his funeral service said they would remember him for his great work ethic and for being a mentor to many. “He was a freedom fighter, personal freedom, organisational freedom, national freedom, he was a freedom fighter and I think he used his journalistic ability and skills as government communicator in ways that many of us can learn from, no matter how old we are, or how experienced we are,” said veteran journalist, Chris Vick. Nyaka’s career tapestry was woven during South Africa’s heightened political unrest and he inspired many young political activists. “He taught us to stand up for our rights. He is the one who introduced the idea of us starting SRCs (Student Representative Councils). I can say that the political life I have and continue to live, the person who started me on this journey is none other than my friend and teacher comrade Sefako,” remarked ANC National Executive Committee member, Jackson Mthembu. Politics and journalism ran deep in Nyaka’s blood. Often keeping him away from those he loved dearly. His children remembered his charity. “He was that kind of person who did things for other people. A woman was lost in Soweto, he opened the door to this woman, and he helped her. He taught us to trust and help other people, he was always someone who saw the good side in people,” said son Given Nyaka. Another son Moloke said, “He was a loving father. He was a family man and was a father that raised not only his children, not only his blood but extended children that were close to him, children from his friends.” Deputy Justice and Correctional Services Minister, Thabang Makwetla also paid a moving tribute to the veteran journalist. “He served our country with a generous heart and he appalled his ideals to the end. He taught and nurtured people who came in contact with. Although our hearts are sore and minds heavy. This will only be befitting and proper to let him gracefully ascend and to let his spirit return to those who send him to do things he did for our people.”  