The KwaZulu-Natal government has announced plans to develop an internationally branded beach resort at Tinley Manor on the north coast. These plans were revealed at Africa’s Travel Indaba in Durban, the largest travel show piece on the continent.  KZN is popular for its golden beaches along the warm Indian Ocean. The subtropical climate is a major draw-card for tourists. A world class beach resort will boost the province’s status as a sought-after destination. KZN Human Settlement MEC, Ravi Pillay, says that the project has been years in the making. “In the history of the tourism industry in KwaZulu-Natal, we are pleased to announce that significant progress has been made towards the development of the first internationally branded beach resort in Southern Africa. This exciting billion rand tourism development has been years in the making and it will reinforce Durban and KwaZulu-Natal as a truly world class and global destination.”  Tongaat Hulett Developments, the landowners and an international resort operator, have already signed a memorandum of agreement. The resort is set to open for business in 2022. The province is also aiming to expand the number of direct international flights to King Shaka International Airport. In 2018, British Airways introduced direct flights from Heathrow. Emirates Airlines plans to add four additional direct flights a week.  While positive news emanated from the annual international tourism showcase, the strike by municipal employees which led to chaos in the city centre has however put a damper on it. Pillay says that those who broke the law will be brought to book. “In the meantime, the police will leave no stone unturned to bring those who broke the laws and by-laws. On behalf of the provincial government, we wish to convey an unconditional apology to all our visitors and the people of KZN who were made to suffer because of the illegal industrial action.” With inbound tourism numbers up country wide, South Africa looks set to achieve its target of attracting five million more tourists between 2017 and 2022.