David Mabuza has been named South Africa’s new Deputy President. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the cabinet at the Union Buildings on Wednesday following a delay. The announcement was expected to take place at 8 pm. However it was only made after almost an hour later. There was uncertainty about Mabuza’s position following the postponement of his swearing in as a Member of Parliament. Mabuza was only sworn in as a Member of Parliament on Tuesday having requested a postponement so that he could appear before the African National Congress’ Integrity Commission to respond to allegations of corruption and other matters. The cabinet has been reduced from 36 to 28 ministries.  “Trade and Industry is combined with Economic Development and to be one ministry, Higher Education and Training is combined with Science and Technology, Environmental Affairs is combined with Forestry and Fisheries, Agriculture is combined with Land Reform and Rural Development, Mineral Resources is combined with Energy, Human Settlement is combined with Water and Sanitation, Sports and Recreation is combined with Arts and Culture. “  Pravin Gordhan retains his post as Public Enterprises Minister despite the public protector making findings against him. Ramaphosa says competence, continuity, regional diversity and gender were among the considerations when selecting his executive. He says the performance of ministers will be monitored. Bheki Cele remains as Police Minister and Tito Mboweni stays on as Finance Minister. Zweli Mkhize replaces Aaron Motsoeledi as Health Minister. Motsoaledi moves to Home Affairs. Gwede Mantashe continues as Mineral Resources Minister. In a surprise move, Ramaphosa announced that the Good Party’s Patricia De Lille will be Public Works Minister.  A staunch supporter of the President, Jackson Mthembu will be the Minister in the Presidency. The International Relations Minister is Naledi Pandor and the Environment Minister is former Gauteng Finance MEC, Barbara Creecy. 3 Social media reacts: 