Former President Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane Zuma has told the State Capture Inquiry in Parktown, Johannesburg, that he was conveniently placed at the crime scene in most of the allegations against him. Zuma is responding to allegations made against him by several witnesses at the inquiry. In reference to former Free State Finance MEC, Mxolisi Dukwana’s testimony about a meeting at the Gupta residence in 2012, Zuma says he was not implicated but just mentioned. Zuma has refuted all allegations made against him by Dukwana.  Dukwana earlier testified that during a meeting at the Gupta residence, Rajesh and Tony Gupta said that African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General, Ace Magashule and Duduzane, received R1 million a month from a mining project in Jakkalsfontein in the Free State. Zuma has rejected Dukwana’s statement in its entirety. “I do not agree with each and every part of the statement, paragraph by paragraph, I do not agree that this meeting took place. I do not agree that his placing all these wonderful people in this meeting – so in entirety I completely refute.” Duduzane Zuma has admitted to introducing former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head, Johan Booysen to the Gupta brothers. During his testimony in May,  Booysen gave details about a meeting with Duduzane Zuma and driving to what he later realised was the Gupta residence in Saxonwold. Zuma refuted Booysen’s claim that he was not aware that they were visiting the Guptas. “By that time we’d arranged to meet at the Gautrain if I recollect he was coming from Midrand or Pretoria the plan was to go to No. 5 Saxonwold and that’s exactly what we did. We arrived….. so he too knew that the plan was to go to the Gupta residence that was the only plan for that day, that was the plan, there was nothing else,” says Zuma. Addressing the Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo,  Zuma says it’s concerning that he was never asked to respond to former Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas’s allegations against him. Jonas earlier testified that Duduzane introduced him to the controversial Gupta family at their Saxonworld home in 2015 where he says he was offered the position of finance minister for R600 million. Zuma says up until now, he has not been afforded an opportunity to respond to the allegations. Watch video below: 