UK lawmakers on Saturday afternoon voted for Oliver Letwin proposals, forcing Prime Minister Boris Johnson towards a Brexit delay. Letwin put forward a proposal to withhold support for Johnson’s Brexit deal until formal ratification legislation has passed. He said he would support that legislation when the government puts it forward. He said it was not responsible for Johnson to threaten a choice between his Brexit deal and a no-deal. “We cannot be sure that such a threat from the prime minister would work. I, despite my support for the prime minister’s deal, do not believe that it is responsible to put the nation at risk by making that threat.” Meanwhile, anti-Brexit protesters on Saturday used a bizarre array of humour to lampoon Britain’s leaders, casting Johnson’s chief adviser as a manipulating devil behind a divorce that was the work of a privileged few. The battle over Brexit spilt onto the streets of London when hundreds of thousands of people gathered to demand a new referendum while lawmakers decided the fate of Britain’s departure from the European Union. Many turned to sometimes risqué British humour. Dominic Cummings, cast by his enemies variously as the puppet master of Brexit, Britain’s Rasputin or a political vandal, was made into a giant effigy of the devil, complete with horns and manipulating his boss, Johnson. “Demonic Cummings” was scrawled across the head of the effigy, pulled by protesters, some with berets sporting the stars of the European flag. Another placard said: ‘I didn’t vote for Dominic Cummings’. Other targets were the privileged financial backers of Brexit. “Brexit is a billionaire con,” read one banner. “Brexit = Disaster Capitalism” read another. Under the slogan “Eton Mess” one placard showed former Prime Minister David Cameron and Johnson, both of whom studied at Britain’s most privileged school – Eton College. They were cast as Horror and Lardy in the pose of Laurel and Hardy, complete with bowler hats. In 2016, 17.4 million voters, or 52%, backed Brexit while 16.1 million, or 48%, backed staying in the EU. Both campaigns were supported by wealthy backers. Sex, of course, was one topic employed on Saturday, as peculiarly, were vegetables and fruit. “Brexit is like consent – we can change our minds during foreplay,” read one placard. “Pulling out never works,” read another. One man was dressed as broccoli while another was dressed as a banana with a sign: “We are ripe for change.”