Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation, Lindiwe Sisulu, has called on South Africans to use water sparingly as the country faces continuous heat waves and low rainfall. Sisulu briefed the media in Johannesburg on Monday about government’s plans to curb the water shortages across the country. The Minister says while the situation is serious, South Africans should not panic since her Department is taking action to deal with the matter. She says the earliest prediction of sufficient rainfall is December.  No water shedding Allaying fears, the minister says, “If we use our water sparingly we won’t get to the point of water shedding.” This as the country is confronted by high temperatures and dwindling dams levels. A scare resource further compounded by delayed rainfall. “Gauteng is not alone there are other provinces … water restrictions in place. The situation is very serious; it’s not one that calls for panic. It’s under control … We’re experiencing what is called water stress. We face harsh realities.” Hammanskraal without water Hammanskraal residents who have been without water for the past four days have accused the Tshwane Metro of only prioritising them during election campaigns.  Dam levels below 50% in E Cape Dam levels in the Eastern Cape province have dropped to below 50%. The provincial government is considering declaring the province a drought disaster area as it is facing a severe drought. The Buffalo City Metro will implement Stage Two water restrictions as from the first of 1 November. BCM spokesperson Samnkelo Ngwenya says, “Our main dam, Bridledrift dam is sitting at 46%, but the rest of our figure dams Buffalo City Metro are sitting below 40%. But  we are hoping that through these restrictions will be able to cut the current water consumption battle, and we are really hoping that our people are going to meet us half way and adhere to some of the restrictions that are available to this issue. People need to get permission to refill their swimming pools and we are urging people not to wash their cars twice a week.”