Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has poked holes in Duduzane Zuma’s testimony about why the meeting between former Deputy Finance Minister, Mcebisi Jonas and African National Congress (ANC) member Fana Hlongwane had to be moved to the Gupta home in Saxonwold. Zuma was appearing for the second day at the State Capture Commission in Parktown, Johannesburg, to respond to allegations leveled against him by several witnesses at the commission. Responding to Justice Zondo’s questions, in concluding his testimony, Zuma said the Gupta residence had catering, printing facilities and staff runners. Justice Zondo was, however, not convinced.  “It just seems to me that there should be no reason why you can’t have two friends in your home who want to discuss a private matter,” expressed Zondo. Zuma then went on to explain to the commission that, “They were friendly to each other. I only had one friend. So, the other technically was not my friend; and so from a welcoming perspective from having someone I dont know it’s something that I dont generally do and I didn’t do it that day.” However, Zondo was not convinced and went on to question this stance Zuma had provided, “I would’ve thought that at least for the purpose of this meeting, your friend’s friend would be welcome in your home for purposes of this discussion which you’ve taken trouble to say i want to help them resolve this.”  ‘Allegations tarnished my name’ Meanwhile, Zuma has told the commission that he does not want the public to perceive him as a corrupt individual. Several witnesses have implicated Zuma and his business associates, the Guptas in wrongdoing at the commission. He says allegations against him have tarnished his name. “On the perception front that is purely on the court of public opinion which is driven by a narrative that extends from media reports and allegations – I am looked at as a criminal, as the face of corruption, this guy that has plundered trillions out of this country which is not the case. So, I would like to say to the public that I am not corrupt and I am not taking any money from anybody and I never will. How they take it, it is not for me to decide. But I want to make it clear that when you see me walking around just know that that is not me.” Duduzane Zuma has also reiterated his statement that former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela did not afford him a fair opportunity to provide his version of events. However, Madonsela accused Zuma of lying and attempting to divert attention away from himself. Zuma says a lot could’ve been clarified had he been give an opportunity by Madonsela. Click video below: 