President Cyril Ramaphosa has called on the police to make the most of their available resources in the fight against crime. Addressing members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) at the Inanda police station, north of Durban,  Ramaphosa says his government is well aware of the challenges of lack of resources in the police service. The visit comes after crime statistics found that the station reported the highest number of rape cases in the country in the 2018/2019 period.  Inanda recorded 338 rape cases and 385 cases of sexual assault.  The area also saw an increase in the murder rate placing it fourth in the country.  Ramaphosa’s visit to the ‘rape capital’ comes after he announced an emergency action plan to curb Gender-Based Violence and Femicide in September. President Ramaphosa had previously highlighted that the country is facing a national crisis where violence against women is concerned. Police indicated that staff shortages, inaccessible roads and a lack of surveillance cameras are amongst the challenges facing the station. Ramaphosa says while it can be difficult for the officers to do their work, it is possible to do more with less. “We see in your presentation that you are short of personnel, you are short of vehicles. We are required even now to do much more with less. The less that we have should be calling on us to do much more because it is possible to do more with less. Particularly in these budget challenges, your minister is always raising the issue of shortages. He’s always championing your challenges. You need compassion; you need more resources, I agree with that.” Watch related video:  Meanwhile, Inanda residents have accused police officers of being on the payroll of criminals. They say this makes it difficult for them to report the cases as they fear for their safety. “Some of our police officers are also involved in the crime activities; in any case they are in the pay roll of these criminals and you find yourself in difficult situations. You report the crime knowing very well that nothing will happen, police are aware of the people selling drugs in these communities but they do nothing about it. They know who is doing what and where and they go and tip-off that person who is selling drugs.” Community members of Inanda on the north of Durban have blamed the high levels of crime in the area on a lack of employment and what they term ‘neglect’ from government. One of the residents Dumisani Nkosi says: “The main contributing factor to the crime in our area is the lack of opportunities and support from government. Government needs to ensure that the youth gets opportunities to develop themselves. We must be supported in order to advance ourselves.” “If government can come up with concrete platforms for us to advance ourselves, crime can be reduced.”    Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 