Deputy President David Mabuza will be back in the National Assembly on Thursday for an oral reply session. Mabuza is expected to face questions on issues ranging from land reform to the economy and the funding of the Moral Regeneration Movement. One of the questions asked by Democratic Alliance (DA) Chief Whip John Steenhuisen to Mabuza is how government can avoid any further future ratings downgrades that will have a negative impact on investment and the promotion of trade in South Africa. African Transformation Movement (ATM) leader Vuyo Zungula will ask a question on how regulations in the micro-economy can assist to motivate citizens to actively participate in growing the rural and township economies. African Christian Democratic Party leader Kenneth Meshoe wants to know what portion of the Moral Regeneration Movement’s funding is received from the government. One of the questions asked by African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament Sthembile Hlongo relates to what government is doing to achieve gender equity in the job market to correct disparity and address shortage of skills. Meanwhile, Ministers in the Governance Cluster will also answer oral questions in the National Council of Provinces on Thursday. They include Ministers in the Presidency, Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs as well as Public Service and Administration. The Ministers in the Governance Cluster will answer different questions ranging from the killing of women and children, the prioritisation of rape cases and whether the government has set time frames to finalise the strategic plan on gender-based violence. Other questions to be asked relate to lifestyle audits and what government is doing to address the concerns of traditional leaders regarding their tools of the trade, which include transport, security and support staff. One of the questions which the Public Service and Administration Minister will face relates to whether the department has undertaken an audit of criminal records of employees, following the murder of 19-year-old Uyinene Mrwetyana. She was allegedly murdered by a South African Post Office employee with a previous criminal record.