The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has shown significant growth in audiences across its News platforms in the first two quarters of the current financial year. The Group Executive of News and Current Affairs Phathiswa Magopeni say the continuous growth of SABC News audiences is a sign that the public news service is responding to the needs of the citizens. Magopeni says all the positive indicators are a reflection of SABC News’ commitment to provide unlimited and inclusive news content. “The performance of the news operation is wholly attributed to the unwavering determination and commitment of SABC News’ journalists and support staff, who work under trying and sometimes dangerous circumstances to ensure that the voices of the citizens, across the board, are acknowledged and amplified”. “SABC News is very determined and successfully transforming into a citizen-centric news service, with a responsive temperament to the news and information needs of the South African public, she says. According to the Broadcast Research Council’s latest television audience measurements, the SABC News Channel (DSTV 404) has performed well, increasing its market share from 34% in September 2018 to 38% during September 2019. In the national market, which includes the Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT) news consumption, the SABC News channel retained its first position with 39% market share, up from 36% in August 2019. SABC News now occupies 7 of the top 10 news items on free-to-air television channels, with news properties on SABC1 and SABC 2 contributing up to 70% of the top 10 news broadcasts. On the other side the IsiXhosa/IsiZulu bulletins have shown strong growth, breaking through the 4 million audience mark, while the SiSwati/SiNdebele bulletins performed well with above 2 million viewers. “Expressions” – our news talk show that provides a dialogue platform for youth – has remained the most popular actuality programme. According to data from Google Analytics, the public news service’s digital platforms recorded impressive performance with the website SABCNews.com reaching over 2 million page views in September 2019, an increase of 22% since 2016. According to YouTube Analytics, the SABC News channel recorded the largest number of views ever, with 26 million views in September 2019, beating the previous best of 22 million views in July 2018. 